Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
College for working men: [proposals, by Frederick Denison Maurice, for the establishment of the Working Men&#39;s College]
G^Toic^ued .,Presented hy the Worshibful Combeoiy of Goldsmiths,
&lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGE&lt;/span&gt; FOR &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MEN&lt;/span&gt;.,I understand the committee, at its meeting of last Thursday, to have agreed on certain maxims, which they wished me to assume in any plan of education I might lay before them.,1.They agreed that our position as members of a society which affirms the operations of trade and industry to he under a moral law&mdash;a law concerning the relations of men to each other, obliges us to regard social, political, or to use a more general phrase, human studies as the primary part of our educa&not;,tion.,2. It was agreed that we were not bound to confine our education to our own associates, but that we should promote their interest better if we produced a scheme which should be available for the working classes generally. At the same time it was considered that we ought to do our utmost, that the members of each association should, as individuals, enter into the general scheme, and, so far as it was possible, that each association should be an integral part of it.,3. It was agreed that adult males (that is to say males, at all events, not younger than 16) should be contemplated, first and chiefly in our education ; though it was thought very desirable that provision should in due time be made for the teaching of boys and of females.
4. It was agreed that the education should be regular and organic, not taking the form of mere miscellaneous lectures, or even of classes not related to each other.,5. It was also agreed that the teachers, and, by degrees, the pupils, should form an organic body, so that the name of college should be at least as applicable to our institution as to Univer&not; sity College or to King&rsquo;s College.,6. It was determined that the College should, in some sense or other, immediately or ultimately, be self-governed and self- supported.,1. When I considered how the first of these resolutions could be carried out, I was encountered by the old difficulty, which every one who deals with the question of Education, in England or elsewhere, has to dispose of as he can. But it presented itself in a new shape. If we make physical science the main subject of our teaching, there will be no impossibility in giving it what is called, a purely secular character. There may be embarrassments even then, but they are such as can be overcome. Once bring in politics and history, and you are encountered at every turn by questions which cannot be passed over, and upon which if you speak with any distinctness, you must intrude upon religious, even ecclesiastical ground. But this difficulty, great for any, is greatest for us. We have pro&not; claimed that the principle of Christianity has not been brought to bear, as it might have been brought to bear, upon common life; we have denounced religious men for sanctioning maxims which are not righteous maxims, and which justify the anoma&not; lies and false practices of society. All people therefore would have a right to suspect us of trickery, if we professed to avoid theology, by merely omitting it in our list of studies. It will
como in, Mr. Holyoake would say, and more dangerously in your political lectures. The working men would fairly charge us with shrinking from the discredit and danger of asserting principles which the religious public of the day disapprove. And our consciences would reprove us, for taking a course which must make all our efforts for the reformation of Society, unintelligible and nugatory.,These reflections have convinced me that there is hut one course open to us. We must offer instruction in theology ; it must occupy a prominent place in our course. But we must bind no one to accept that part of our instruction, because he wishes for some other part of it. For the teacher it forms a portion of an organic whole ; the pupil is not the least obliged to regard it in that light. He is pledged to nothing. He has fair warning of what may seem to him our prejudices ; he may avoid us altogether : or he may be on the watch against us, and may receive just as much of what we present to him as he thinks safe. The suspicion that we have a sectarian object cannot be averted by professions ; we must only hope that it will be con&not; futed by experience.,I propose then, that there should be a class in the Bible every Sunday evening. A class on Church history may be added hereafter.,If this point is settled, we may proceed to what I shall call, in the old language of the schools (which I do not think is in the least degree obsolete or unsuitable to our purpose), the Humanity course. It should consist, I think, of lessons on Politics, on Ethics, and on Language. These lectures might be given respectively on the evenings of Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. On the same evenings I would suggest other lectures, closely connected with these, on History and Litera&not; ture : the first series to be on our own. The third, or Natural Division follows. On Thursday evenings I should propose Lectures on the Human Frame. On Friday, Lectures upon Ma-
chinery, or the instruments which man wields. On Saturday, on the Relations between the Physical world and Man. Classes on Drawing, on Arithmetic, and on Music, might he fixed for these same evenings.,I wish it to be remembered, that great as is the disadvantage of working men in respect of education, from the short time that they are able to devote to it each day, they have one ad&not; vantage over the ordinary students in our Colleges. Their curriculum of study is limited by the fact that they are prepar&not; ing for some profession or trade. An Oxford or Cambridge student is liable to the enormous delusion of thinking that his education terminates, when he takes his degree. The course which I propose may stretch over many years. The different branches into which the vast subject of politics divides itself, such as polity in its highest sense, law, economics, may be treated of in suc&not; cession in different years, so that the student may feel how they rise out of each other. Out of the class of language, may spring hereafter classes on different languages, and one on logic. Even the natural philosopher may avoid a merely loose and superficial treatment of his subject ; he may take the different portions of it, in what he believes to he their proper relation, beginning perhaps with some general view of the whole Cosmos. He may lead some of his pupils to feel how much better they would be for an initiation in pure mathematics, and may put such into a method of seeking it. I shall have further remarks to make upon this subject, under the third head.,2. I justify the course which I have proposed as furthering the ends of those who are promoting Working Men&rsquo;s Associa&not; tions, because I think that what working men most want is the feelino- of an order in God&rsquo;s government, in their relations to each other, in the world around them, a righteous order and one into which they must enter, which they cannot make for them&not; selves. So far as we awaken them to the feeling of this order,
and cultivate it in them, so far are we resisting the selfish and disorganising tendencies of their own minds and of the world around them ; so far are we preparing them to feel that there is a right which they may pursue and a wrong which they may reject in the common business of life ; so far are we making the workshop itself a means of practical education, a living com&not; mentary upon what the)&#39; learn. The true treatment of history, especially of English history, of ethics, of theology, will, I be&not; lieve, be better preaching in support of association than any other which we could set on foot. We shall rather have to beware of twisting it to that end than of not keeping the end continu&not; ally in sight. But if we are thoroughly convinced of the truth of our principle, we should consider it a weakness and a sin, to distort or suppress any fact for the sake of enforcing it. If the subjects of the lectures become subjects of conversation and mutual instruction in the workshop, a new spirit will be intro&not; duced into it, the Associations may become guilds of intelligent and thoughtful men, able to exert an immense practical influ&not; ence upon the whole land. We shall have a right to call upon them to be in this way, as in all others, examples to their bre&not; thren. We may call upon them, furnier, so to arrange with us their times of working, that the evening instruction may be as efficient as possible. We may ask them now and then to appoint parts of days for holidays ; in case, for instance, the historical lecturer should wish to take his class to shew them any memorable places of which he has been speaking, or the mechanical lecturer should wish them to examine any of the great factories and the processes which go on in them.,3. I am strongly convinced that an education of the most ignorant adult, must have a different starting-point from the education of the most clever boy. We must give the one credit for knowing things which the other does not and cannot know. And we should ask ourselves what it is that we may give the
man credit for, and whereabouts, therefore, we should begin our teaching with him. He will find it very hard to get up the facts of history or to learn a language, things which the boy finds easy. But he is acquainted with the gossip of the news&not; papers about public affairs ; he has a certain set of maxims, traditional or newly adopted, about what it is right or wrong for him and other men to do ; he does actually talk a language, correctly or incorrectly ; he uses the limbs of his body and has experience of health and sickness ; he has a set of instruments, which he employs with a skill at which we can only marvel ; he has to do with the vegetables and the animals which the earth produces ; he has an eye for discerning the distinction of objects, &mdash;often a very keen and exercised eye ; his voice and ear are likely to be quite as good as those of men otherwise with greater advantages ; he is, perhaps, a husband, a father, most likely a brother, at all events a son. These are our data. To neglect these, and lay down a mere scheme of instruction, framed upon the notion of beginning at the beginning or proceeding from first elements to more advanced knowledge, is, I conceive, to set aside the order of God&rsquo;s providence, and to cut off almost all chance of the old scholar ever becoming aware of his igno&not; rance, and so a wise man. This is my reason for starting with such difficult subjects as politics and ethics ; because all our pupils are politicians and ethical theorists, before they come to us. What we want is, to put order into their crude thoughts, or rather to lead them gradually to perceive (we ourselves learn&not; ing as rve teach) the order which is at the bottom of their thoughts. We must not begin from the past, but make them feel that they need the past for the explanation of the pre&not; sent. So, too, they will find an order in their own speech, laws governing it and correcting the incoherencies of it, which they would never get at if they began&mdash;as Dominie Samson proposed to do with his pupil, whom he had lost at five, when he re&not; turned at five-and-twenty&mdash;from the first rudiments of grammar.
We must rather get back to the first rudiments of grammar ; in the course of which process we and our scholars may discover what grammar means, and what the grammar of one people has to do with that of another.,If this remark is true, it may be a help to us in ascertaining how far the education of the workwoman may be joined with that of the workman, and where they should be separate. The language classes, the drawing classes, the music classes, might, I should think, be the same for both, the starting points of knowledge being the same. In politics they would not be the same, nor perhaps in ethics. I think it is quite clear that women ought to have lessons in social life and order as well as in ethics, taking domestic life for the ground. They should also have lectures upon health, though I suppose the physician would feel the necessity of giving these an entirely different character from those which he addressed to men.,With respect to boys, I think we shall find the great ad&not; vantage of forming our College first and the School afterwards. For then the school will be always looking up to the college and be a preparation for it. We may not introduce any novel&not; ties into the teaching of reading, writing, and arithmetic, far less reckon that insignificant teaching. But if we recollect that we are framing our boys to live together as members of a society, as fellow-workers, there will be, I conceive, a spirit and a method in our education of them, which are not exactly what we find, or expect to find, even in the best of our National and Lancastrian schools. On that subject I do not, however, pro&not; pose to speak in the present paper.,4. I have anticipated much of what I had to say under the fourth head. I will merely remark that I do not think the free permission to a pupil to attend any one class, without attending the rest, will interfere with the unity of our education, if we keep one object steadily in view in arranging the different por-
tions of it and in carrying it out. And, therefore, though I have been careful to distinguish this subject from the next, I believe in practice one will depend wholly on the other.,5. What I mean is, that if we are an organic body of teachers, we shall he able to form a College in spite of innumerable obstacles which we can foresee now, and innumerable more which we cannot foresee, from the circumstances and characters of our pupils. I have spoken of our being as much a college as University College or King&rsquo;s College ; I would add, that I think we ought to aim at being much more of a college, in the strictest sense of the word, than either of these bodies, or than any one in Oxford or Cambridge. I do not mean that we shall ever have a Gothic chapel or hall, or endowments, or that we should wish for them. But I mean that, starting from a common maxim and a common object, there ought to be an understanding between us, even when the subjects which we teach are most different&mdash;I would add, even though our opinions on many sub&not; jects may be very different, and though we may have a very slight acquaintance with the departments in which the others are teaching&mdash;that is not found, so far as I know, among pro&not; fessors or tutors elsewhere. I have myself worked for nearly six years in a female college where there was the most entirely good understanding between all the teachers. It was kept up hy frequent meetings for conducting the affairs of the col&not; lege, and by a sense of their mutual responsibility for it. The effects have been felt, I think, in the sympathy between the teachers and the taught. But even there, we were not nearly well enough acquainted with each other&rsquo;s plans and objects ; we conversed more about the machinery of the institution than about the relation between our different studies, and the way in which we could make them act and react upon each other. I hope the very difficulties of our present undertaking, and at the same time the sense of its great necessity, and perhaps also the
experience which some of us may have had in our own university life of the want of connexion between the different pursuits in which we were engaged, may make us resolve, so far as in us lies, to remedy this defect. By comparing notes we may often, I should hope, improve our plans and cure errors, without intro&not; ducing visible and violent changes, which disturb the pupils and lead them to suppose that we do not understand our own purposes.,We shall require a house, I conceive, and not a mere room, for the college. If it is in the north of London, I hope it may become a mother of colleges in the east and in the west, whether they hereafter keep up their relation to it or become independent. Besides a sufficient number of large class-rooms, the house should have rooms for a library and for general reading, as well perhaps as for a common table. The possibility of residence I have not considered ; but I think that hereafter model lodging- houses, both for single men and for families, might arise out of it or be connected with it. A place fitted up for gymnastic exercises will be a most important addition to it. If it were in the neighbourhood of one of the cheap baths, our pupils would often come to their studies quickened by that refreshment, as well as by the exercise of the pole and the swing.,6. I now come to the last subject, that of self-support and self-government. In my sense of the words, I feel the import- snce of both most deeply. But I am not sure whether my sense is that of the Committee ; it is certainly not that of our precur&not; sors at Sheffield. I should most strongly object to any inter&not; ference of patrons, ecclesiastical or civil, and of the outlying public, secular or religious, with the arrangement of our studies or with the subsequent management of the college. And if we do not mean to submit to their dictation, we must not ask for their help. We must say plainly, &ldquo; this is what we are willing to offer. It you like to have it, well; if not, go elsewhere.&rdquo; I perfectly
agree therefore in the Sheffield principle, that the education should he paid for, and that we should not incur any expences which the payments of the pupils will not nearly meet. I wish also that the pupils should feel themselves a part of the college, adopted into it from the first, any of them capable of holding offices in it hereafter. But I would not let them have the least voice, in determining what we shall teach or not teach, or how we shall teach. We may have social meetings with them ; we may have conversations with them individually ; but no educa&not; tion will go on if we have general tumultuous assemblies to dis&not; cuss what has been done or what is to be done. We who begin the institution must claim authority over it, and not hastily resign our authority, however we may admit others by degrees to share it, and however willing we may be to creep out of it when the institution can stand without us. That we may preserve this position, I believe it is necessary that our teaching should be gratuitous; all the fees going at first to the procuring of the necessary machinery for the institution.,I do not feel competent to express an opinion about the amount of fees. I am inclined to think that they should be paid for a full half-year in advance, that those who enter may be pledged to the college, or at least to the classes he chooses, for so long. Those who enter for several classes should have the terms reduced. There might be a certain number of free pupils, whose course of study we should have a right to prescribe. I have found great difficulty in coming to any conclusion upon the point, whether any besides working-men should be allowed to attend the classes. There is the obvious fear, if we ever were popular, of swamping them, and of the college becoming as useless for the persons it professes to serve, as the free sittings in our churches generally are. On the other hand, there is the great difficulty of drawing the line, and of saying why the hard-worked waiter in a shop should he excluded from any benefit which belongs to a mechanic as such. I see very great objections to
a varying scale of fees ; but it has struck me that a fine might bo exacted as entrance-money of all who are not strictly working&not; men, such fine to be remitted or reduced in any particular cases where it would manifestly be a hardship, at the discretion of the teacher of the particular class, or of the body of teachers gene&not; rally. I am not sure that this is the right way of meeting the difficulty, but no better has occurred to me. The committee ought to seek for evidence on the question whether working men are likely to be better satisfied with an education exclusively for themselves, or whether they would be encouraged by seeing that other classes desire the same. Of course, we can only make a rude guess at the truth on such a matter, and local circum&not; stances may cause the greatest difference. We must decide for our own quarter.,There are many points which I have not considered in this sketch. The question the committee will have to decide is whether they will adopt it generally, and against what particu&not; lar parts of it they will except. Then they will have to consider who shall undertake different branches of instruction, where the College should be situated, what officers will be necessary in it in addition to the teaching body, wdiat the scale of charges should be, in what manner and how soon the project should be announced. There are other subjects, such as the possibility of holding examinations and conferring any certificates of honour upon the pupils and the mode of teaching, whether it should be continuous or catechetical, which I think cannot be settled till we are at work, and the answers to which will probably be dif&not; ferent in different classes.,I shall merely add, that my objectious to extraneons support do not, of course, apply to any persons who are willing to trust us with the management of our own education, and who like to give any additional advantages to our scholars of which we may direct the application. Nor should I at all object hereafter to open the institution to the oversight of Her Majesty&rsquo;s inspectors,
or to accept a grant from the Privy Council, upon a clear under&not; standing that it was to make us more efficient in carrying- out our own objects.