Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
Short lectures explanatory of our land laws: delivered at the Working Men&#39;s College by Thomas Lean Wilkinson
.i . A N J&rsquo; &amp;gt; / &fnof; .-j )\! w j,] ./■■&#39;.&middot; W ly ■ J.KJNS&Ouml;İN
SHORT LECTURES,EXPLANATORY OF OUE LAND LAWS,DELIVERED AT THE &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MENS&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGE&lt;/span&gt;,BY THOMAS LEAN WILKINSON,OF ТЫЕ INNER ŢEMPLE, BA KRISTER- AT-LA W,Henry S. King &amp;amp; Co. 65 Cornhill &amp;amp; 12 Paternoster Row, London 1873
{All rights reserved)
The following Lectures were delivered during the present month to the Students of the &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&rsquo;s&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt;, Great Ormond Street, London. The author&rsquo;s object was humble : it was merely to give such a concise and simple sketch of the main outlines of a portion of our law, now receiving much public attention, as would interest non-professional men, to whom even the admirable class books of Mr. Joshua Williams are unknown.,February, 1373.
CONTENTS.,LECTURE I. PAGE Necessity of some knowledge of the history of the land laws&mdash; Manner of holding land in England before the Conquest&mdash;Effect of the Conquest on the holding of land&mdash;Introduction of the Feudal System&mdash;Fundamental principle of the land laws&mdash; Tenure&mdash;History and description of tenures&mdash;Different classes of estates : Freeholds&mdash;Copyholds&mdash;Leases for terms of years&mdash; Varieties of freehold estates&mdash;Estate for life .... 7,LECTURE II. Estates in tail&mdash;Their history&mdash;Becoveries&mdash;Barring entails&mdash; Bights of the owner of an estate in tail&mdash;Estate in fee simple&mdash; Its history&mdash;History of the power of alienation of land inter vivos &mdash;Of the power of devising land by will&mdash;Bights of an owner in fee&mdash;Descent of e&egrave;tates of inheritance&mdash;Bight6 of husband and wife&mdash;Marriage settlements, their object and effect . . .20
LECTURE III. Г Estates in expectancy&mdash;Reversions and Remainders&mdash;Legal and equitable estates &mdash; Origin of equitable estates &mdash; Restraint on the creation of future estates &mdash; Copyholds&mdash;Their history&mdash; Rights of copyholders&mdash;Their history&mdash;Leases for terms of y ears &mdash;Their peculiarities&mdash;Mortgages&mdash;Methods of conveying land ..-,34
OUE LAND LAWS.,LECTURE I. Necessity of some knowledge of the history of the land laws&mdash;Manner of holding land in England before the Conquest&mdash;Effect of the Conquest on the holding of land&mdash;Introduction of the Feudal System &mdash;Fundamental principle of the land laws&mdash;Tenure&mdash;History and description of tenures&mdash;Different classes of estates : Freeholds&mdash; Copyholds&mdash;Leases for terms of years&mdash;Varieties of freehold estates &mdash;Estate for life. The Law relating to the land of this country cannot be rightly understood without some previous know&not; ledge of its history. It is not alone that its subtle theories, fine distinctions, restrictions, forms, and terminology cannot be made clear without some refer&not; ence to their origin ; but the law itself is very ancient, many of its rules having come down to us from the days when the foundations of our jurisprudence were laid. Some of the commonest every-day dealings with land derive their validity from Acts of the Parliaments of Edward I. and decisions of the Judges of Edward IV., while the modern changes in the law have touched the ancient system so lightly that an acquaintance with it is necessary before the very changes can be understood. When the bands of Teutonic invaders first settled in
England, their manner of dealing with the lands they conquered was very simple. They settled on the tract which their swords had cleared of its old owners, and occupied it as their own territory or marie. A large portion was set aside for the general benefit of the little community, to be enjoyed in common, or to be let on such terms as the public voice might decide, and the remainder was allotted in separate portions to &bull;the individual conquerors ; the extent of each portion being, no doubt, determined by the rank or prowess of the warrior who received it, hut, at the same time, care being taken that each freeman had a share of the soil he had helped to win. As the swarms from the North grew more numerous, the quantity of land thus divided increased, until it included most of ancient England. Lands thus held by individual men were held &lsquo; allo- dially,&rsquo; that is, the holder had no over-lord. In regard to his land, he knew &lsquo; no superior but Crod and the law.&rsquo; This is the nearest approach to absolute property in land which can be found recognised in the whole range of English jurisprudence. But all the lands which were held allodially were not acquired by so rude a form of grant. They were not all mere booty. As English society became more settled, and shires grew out of the aggregation of marks, kingdoms out of the like aggregation of shires, and finally the supremacy of Wessex became established, the land which had been reserved for the common benefit of its conquerors&mdash;the folkland, as it was called&mdash; passed into the guardianship of the king and his witan. With this guardianship passed the right of giving the land away&mdash;a right very freely exercised. Numbers of
grants were made by which holdings were carved out of the common land of the realm and given to indi&not; viduals. From the fact that these holdings were granted by charter they were known as booldand, a term which, in contradistinction to folkland , came to be applied to all land held by an Englishman as his own. But these later gifts of bookland were not all purely allodial. The nearer we approach the Conquest the oftener we find lands granted upon condition that the grantee should perform certain services. In fact, we reach the time when the doctrine of tenures, which forms so fundamental a portion of our land laws, had its origin. By the most ancient common law of England which has come down to us, all bookland was liable to three burthens : the obligation of the owner to serve against the enemy, and to contribute to the repairs of the fortresses and bridges of the kingdom. These obligations were due altogether to the common&not; wealth, and were imposed by the law of the land ; and Englishmen who held their lands by right of the earlier allotments or grants, held them subject to these obligations only. But the services on the performance of which many later grants were made conditional were very different. They were personal services to the king or some great lord, not due by common law, but rendered as a return for a gift of lands. The growth of the aristocracy of thegnhood and of the custom of commendation powerfully influenced this change in the manner in which the land of England was held. Thegns were not an aristocracy of blood, like the eorls. They derived their nobility from their place amongst the personal following of the king
or a great lord, an ealdorman, or bisbop ; and, as was natural, their services were often rewarded by grants of land conditioned on the performance of services to their lord, which, as his followers, they felt no especial burthen. Commendation was the custom which arose of every Englishman commending himself, or be&not; coming &lsquo; the man &rsquo; of some greater personage than himself. The great lords commended themselves to the king, ordinary freemen to the lords, and so on ; and by right of the tie thus formed the lord was bound to give protection to his &lsquo; man,&rsquo; and the 4 man &rsquo; owed certain duties to the lord. But it must be under&not; stood that this tie was of a purely personabnature, and did not arise in any way out of the land. Thus we find that immediately before the Conquest the land of this country was divided into three portions : one of which belonged to the community at large, and was enjoyed in common, although liable to be given away by the king and his witan ; another portion was held by individuals as of their own absolute right, free from all obligations except those imposed on them by the common law ; and the third was held by individuals subject not only to the same obligations, but to the performance of certain services to superior lords. Every man also, save the king, was bound by a personal tie to render certain services to some person above him, and in return was entitled to receive that person&rsquo;s protection. The Conquest made great changes in all this. The lands of Englishmen were widely confiscated by Wil&not; liam and his immediate successors, and granted to Frenchmen. Be-grants of their own lands were made to some Englishmen as a matter of favour, and others
were, by good luck of one sort or another, allowed to retain the heritage of their fathers. But Norman notions both as to the relationship which should exist between man and man, and as to the way lands should be held, were very different from those which existed with us. As the Norman ideas of nobility of blood and the hereditary right of certain families to reign were foreign to the conquered people, so the laws and customs relating to land in Normandy differed widely from those which obtained in England. The hold&not; ings of land in Normandy were altogether feudal, and feudalism had become in that country an elaborate system. The relationship of lord and &lsquo; man &rsquo; was not, as with us, a purely personal tie ; it had taken the form of lord and vassal, and the services due to the lord were not due by reason of the tie so much as by reason of the land held by the vassal. To this relation&not; ship also had been attached services and burthens quite unknown in England. But the conquerors had more respect for their own notions than for the feel&not; ings of the people they had subdued. The grants and confirmations made by the French kings of the soil of England were made after the manner of their own country. The difference between the modes of holding at first seemed slight, and not of much conse&not; quence to a warlike people. An Englishman who, in the days of the Confessor, was absolute owner of his land, though bound to perform services at the bidding of the lord whose &lsquo; man &rsquo; he was, would not see much change in having under the Conqueror to render the same services by reason of his holding the land. Then, this change was very gradually made. It was not until the reign of Henry II. that it became
universal, and that its full extent became apparent. It was when the French lawyers who flocked over to London had introduced their subtleties, and built up a system of law on the basis of that introduced from Normandy, that the difference between the new system of land laws and the old became so evident. The history of this great change which took place in the manner of holding land in England is very obscure, and it is not easy to fix the precise steps by which it was accomplished. It is certain, however, that by Henry II.&rsquo;s time not only were all lands held by Englishmen subject to feudal services, but the law relative to such lands had become so systematised that many of the principles which lie at the base of our present land laws were firmly settled ; for in King Eichard I.&rsquo;s time&mdash;beyond which otir courts&rsquo; legal memory does not extend&mdash;we find a defined legal system in existence, which, during the last six centuries and a half, has developed into the elaborate and intricate law with which we are familiar. The cardinal doctrine of this system&mdash;the feudal, as it is commonly called, though really it only borrowed some feudal principles&mdash;was that the king was the over-lord of all the soil of England, and that any man holding any portion of that soil held it either medi&not; ately or immediately from him. Lords might hold directly from the king, and humbler folk from them. The chain of lord and tenant might be very long, but still it was a chain&mdash;the top link was the king, and the bottom the person cultivating the land for his own profit, no matter how many links intervened ; and the relationship that existed between any two connecting
links of this chain was that of lord and vassal. This not a personal relationship, such as commendation formed, but one existing by reason of the land held by the vassal of his lord, and which bound him to per&not; form certain services to the lord&mdash;the performance of the services being the condition on which the vassal held the land. This relationship was called the tenure by which the lands were held. So far the old English boolcland : as for the f olieland, by force of the same doctrine, it became terra regis &mdash;the private domain of the crown. This doctrine is still one of the funda&not; mental principles of our law. It therefore follows that there can be no absolute ownership of land in this country. No man can own a square foot of Eng&not; land in the same way that he can own a horse or a piece of furniture. He can at the very utmost possess an estate in it&mdash;an estate defined in its extent, and enjoyed only on certain conditions. These estates widely differ from each other in the rights they confer and the value of the interest in the land which they give. They may be divided into three great classes : freeholds, copyholds, and leaseholds for a term of years. Before describing these several classes of estates, it may be well to explain a little further the doctrine of tenure, as all estates are subject to it. The freehold tenures, as they are called, those by which freehold estates were or are now held, are by far the most impor&not; tant ; and as the divergence of other tenures from them can best be explained in another place, at present we will speak only of freehold tenures. Formerly there were very many species of these tenures, practically distinguished by their incidents
or the obligations or duties arising out of them. Thus some freehold tenants by reason of their tenure were bound to perform services on their lord&rsquo;s domain&mdash;to do a certain amount of ploughing or carting, others to repair the fortifications of a town, or to follow their lord to war. But there was more uniformity in what were deemed the more honourable tenures, those by which barons and knights held their lands. There was grand serjeanty, under which a tenant was bound to carry the king&rsquo;s banner, lance, or sword ; and petit serjeanty, under which the tenant every year was bound to give the king some weapon or piece of armour. But the two tenures which were the most usual, and therefore the most important, were those of knight service, and free and common socage. By the tenure of knight service, the tenant was bound to do homage, and take an oath of fealty to his lord, and besides performing military service under cer&not; tain conditions, which was a common incident of most freehold tenures, to render him aids, or contribute money in certain cases, viz., when the lord was taken prisoner in war and had to be ransomed, when he made his eldest son a knight, and married his eldest daughter. Under this tenure also, the lord, amongst other rights, was entitled to the custody of the person and lands of the tenant during minority, without any liability to account for rents and profit, and to exact a heavy pecuniary penalty from a ward who refused to marry at his bidding. Free and common socage is one of the most ancient, if not the most ancient, of tenures. It is so old that the derivation of the name is doubtful. Possibly it had its origin in the allodial holdings so common before the
Conquest, and remained the tenure of those lands which some Englishmen were fortunate enough to retain during the days of the French kings of England, with&not; out forfeiture or re-grant. But a very small portion of the soil was held by this tenure. It was the most beneficial of all for the tenant, the main incident being a small rent payable to the lord and the ordinary feudal aids. It was exempt from all the burthen of military services, wardship and marriage, which weighed so heavily on those who held their land by knight service. So heavily did these burthens weigh, and so flagrant were the abuses to which they were open, that English History during the five hundred years succeeding the Conquest is full of the complaints of the landholders respecting them. At last a chance came of making a great change, and it was eagerly seized. One of the first acts of the Restoration Parliament was to sweep away all these burthens, and, only reserving some honorary services, to turn all the freehold tenures of estates of inheritance into free and common socage, and that was discharged from liability to the old feudal aids. This, therefore, is the tenure of almost all the land of England held in fee simple and in tail; and as the old incidents that were at all onerous were abolished, those which are left are too unimportant to dwell on, except perhaps that of escheat. This is the right of the lord in case the tenant dies without an heir and intestate, or is sentenced to death for murder, to enter on the lands and keep them. To return to the three great classes of estates in England&mdash;freeholds, copyholds, and leaseholds for terms of years.
A freehold was originally simply the smallest estate which any freeman could worthily accept. Now it will be easily understood that, in a warlike time, this smallest estate in a piece of land which it was worth the while of a soldier to accept at once as a reward for past services, a means of subsistence, and a retainer for any future services which he might be called on to perform, was an estate, or the right of ownership, for the term of his own life. If the ownership was given so that it would descend to his children or other relatives after his death, so much the better. But so far as the first recipient was concerned, anything less than an estate for his life was in those days unworthy of his ac&not; ceptance, and so came it to pass that such an estate was called a freehold ; and estates in land which were not only for life but went to the owner&rsquo;s relatives on his death, being still more worthy of a freeman&rsquo;s acceptance, were called freeholds also. But in the days when our land laws had their origin a great number of Englishmen were not freemen. They were serfs or villeins, as they were technically called&mdash; slaves under a very peculiar and special code of law. Under this code numbers of these serfs were attached to the soil, bound to till it for the lord, but having a right to a maintenance at the hands of their master. In such circumstances, as might have been expected, the lords in the management of their estates adopted a very simple plan. They exacted a certain amount of work from each serf, and allowed him a piece of land to get his living out of when not working for his owner. After a time these serfs acquired a fixed estate in their pieces of land, and they gradually grew from being mere slaves existing at the will of the lord into tenants,
bound indeed to perform certain work for their lord which in a military age was deemed degrading, but still tenants holding their lands by right of the entry of their allotments on the court rolls of their lord&rsquo;s manor, or copyholders. In the earlier days of our land laws leases for terms of years were scarcely known. They were beneath the acceptance of the military freemen, and much too defined for a lord to give his serf. It was not until the relationships of life became more complicated that leases for years, under which so much property is now held, became common and the estimation in which they were originally held is shown by the fact that in law the smallest freehold estate&mdash;that for life &mdash;is considered greater than the longest term of years ; so that a man possessing a lease for life of a piece of land, at a high rent, is considered technically as hav&not; ing a larger estate in the land than if he had a lease of it for a thousand years at a peppercorn per annum. Freehold estates are of many sorts&mdash;estates for life, or in tail, or in fee. For the purpose of describing the chief characteristics of each of these, it is better to take them separately. A life estate is created by the grant of land to a man for his life. Such an estate was formerly deemed the smallest of freehold estates. Still smaller estates, how&not; ever, such as the estate a woman would hold in lands given her during widowhood, are now considered free&not; hold ; but such estates are comparatively rare. An estate for life, on the other hand, is very common. Indeed, most of those who are called landowners in England are simply tenants for life of their lands. This state of things arises from the custom of settling в
family estates on marriages. By these settlements, as a rule, the person actually in possession of the lands, and those living who are to succeed him, are made tenants for life, the next generation of successors being made tenants in tail. Thus, on the occasion of the marriage of the eldest son of a landowner, who we may suppose possesses his estate in fee simple, the custom is to cut down this estate to that of a tenant for life, give another life estate to the son who will come into possession on the father&rsquo;s death, and give estates tail to the children of the marriage. If the father is only a tenant for life already under a prior settlement, there are generally other means whereby the same object, that of preserving the lands in the family by giving to the possessor only a limited ownership, can be accomplished. It is under such settlements as these that most of the land in the king&not; dom is held. A tenant for life has a very restricted estate. Of course, he can sell or give away his own life interest in the lands if he wishes, hut he cannot in any way affect the estates of those who are to succeed him. He therefore cannot encumber the estate with mortgages, nor could he formally grant leases which would be valid after his death. By strict law he cannot cut timber, or open mines or quarries, though he may work those already open. The rigid rules of the old law, however, have been relaxed ; and by virtue of modern Acts of Parliament tenants for life may now grant leases for certain periods. It is customary also to give special powers in settlements, enabling tenants for life to deal with their lands in a manner which they could not otherwise do. Still most of these
tenants for life hold their estates under very stringent practical restrictions. For instance, there are very few who could in any way grant a lease of a farm for fifty years, or of a house for one hundred, or receive or take a sum of money down in lieu of part of the rent re&not; served on a lease they could grant ; and as nearly all the large landowners in England are tenants for life, it will be seen how restrained ordinary dealings with land must be.
LECTURE II.,Estates in tail&mdash;Their history&mdash;Recoveries&mdash;Barring entails&mdash;Bights of the owner of an estate in tail&mdash;Estate in fee simple&mdash;Its history&mdash; History of the power of alienation of land inter vivos &mdash;Of the power of devising land by will&mdash;Bights of an owner in fee&mdash;Descent of estates of inheritance&mdash;Bights of husband and wife&mdash;Marriage settlements, their object and effect. An estate depending- on the existence of a single life is not technically an estate of inheritance, although, if the owner of such an estate has it for the life of another man, it will, under certain circumstances, descend to his heirs. Estates of inheritance, or those which may he inherited, are of two sorts &mdash; estates in tail, and estates in fee simple. An estate tail is created by the grant of lands to a man and the heirs of his body. Strictly speaking, such a grant gives an estate in tail general, for the grant may be made to the heirs male, or heirs female, or the heirs by a particular wife&mdash;then the estate is said to be in tail male, or tail female, or special tail. The creation of this species of estate more than of any other is a pure matter of custom in this country. But for the practice of limiting the ownership of land by marriage settlements which is so universal, estates in tail would soon fall into disuse. It is because their incidents are so peculiarly adapted for all the purposes
of settlements that they so generally exist. The history of these incidents is very curious. The absolute right of children to succeed their father was not acknowledged for very many years after the Conquest. How far it existed amongst Englishmen before the Conquerer came over it is unnecessary now to discuss. But the Norman invaders brought over with them the germs of the modern idea as to this right. In their own country these germs had become so far de&not; veloped that the principle of the hereditary right of cer&not; tain families to crowns was admitted, though the strict order of succession, so familiar to us, was quite unknown. In such a purely military age the accession of an infant, or an imbecile, to a place at the head of affairs was a danger too great to be risked. So we find that though the claims of families were admitted, the claims which we should consider all-powerful in individuals, according to our modern canons of descent, did not carry much weight. None of the six immediate successors of the Conqueror, for instance, would be deemed, according to our present law, the rightful occupant of the throne. As it was with the crown, so it was with dignities now hereditary, and so also, to a great extent, with land. It did not follow that an estate granted by the Conqueror to one of his followers descended to his children. They might have a claim to a grant of the land to them as an act of grace at their father&rsquo;s death, but it was as an act of grace only : the original estate was simply one for life to the father. It is probable that from the first some estates were given which, by the terms of the ori&not; ginal grant, descended to the donee&rsquo;s children ; and it is clear that ere long it became customary to grant estates on such terms ; but the history of this change is exceed-
ingly obscure. It is certain, however, that by the time of Henry II., grants of estates to a man and his &lsquo; heirs &rsquo; were not only fully recognised as conveying an estate which would descend to the grantee&rsquo;s children, but the more technical meaning had been attached to the word &lsquo; heirs,&rsquo; and, in default of children, an estate so granted would descend to the collateral relatives of the grantee. It was this extension of the original meaning of the word &lsquo; heirs &rsquo; which led to the use of the words &lsquo; heirs of his body,&rsquo; when it was intended to limit an estate strictly to the issue of the grantee. Originally the word &lsquo; heirs &rsquo; was used in the sense of issue, and a grant of an estate to a man and his heirs was a direct gift of an estate to the issue of the grantee. Even after the word &lsquo; heirs &rsquo; had acquired so teclmical a meaning as to include collateral relatives, the grantee in possession had no power to dispose of the estate, so as to prevent the heirs succeeding ; they were as much donees under the original grant as he himself was. It was not very long, however, before the owners in possession acquired this right, though, as is the case with most of those early changes, the steps by which they acquired it are wrapped in obscurity. We know little more than that in Henry III, &rsquo;s reign it was firmly established that the&middot; possessor of an estate granted to a man and his heirs, or the heirs of his hody, coidd prevent any relative succeeding to it&mdash;in fact, that the employment of the words in the original limitation gave the right to a possessor to sell or give the estate away. Ever since that time the law has been unchanged in tliis respect with regard to estates given to a man and
his heirs, that is, estates in fee simple. But a change was made as to estates in tail, or those given to a man and the heirs of his body. It was one thing to alienate or dispose of the land as against heirs, it was another to do so as against the lord of the tenant ; but this power during the reign of Henry III. had also been secured. The most usual way of disposing of lands in those days was by subin&not; feudation, that is, by subletting the lands to other tenants ; and one of the first rights which tenants acquired of alienating their lands as against their lords was that of subletting these lands, so that if their own estates came to an end, their under-tenants continued to hold the lands sublet of the superior lord. Thus the lord&rsquo;s chance of obtaining back an estate from a tenant on account of failure of heirs was con&not; siderably reduced. This right was still further ex&not; tended, and at length we find that in the beginning of the reign of Edward I. it was clear law that the possessor of an estate granted to a man and his heirs might at once alienate it as against his lord ; and the possessor of an estate granted to a man and the heirs of his body might do so the moment he had a child born. But the great lords were not prepared to submit tamely to such encroachments on their ancient rights, and in the thirteenth year of Edward I. a famous statute was passed, called Ľe donis conditionalibus, which enacted that the will of the donor, according to the form in the deed of gift manifestly expressed, should be from thenceforth observed, so that they to whom the tenement was given should have no power to alien it, whereby it should fail to remain to their own issue
after their death, or to revert to the donor or his heirs if issue should fail. This enactment had the desired effect. For two hundred years all the estates tail held in England were inalienable. The heirs of the body of the grantee succeeded in the strict rule of succession and by right of the original gift ; and the superior lords had all their chances of getting back the lands granted if there should be any failure of the grantee&rsquo;s issue. But people began to see how prejudicial it was to the interests of the kingdom that so much of the land should be tightly bound up, and they looked out for a remedy. From Parliament, where the great lords predominated, nothing could be hoped ; but at length, in 1473, a decision of the judges known as that in Tal- tarurds case, scarcely noticed at the time, opened a way of escape from the difficulty. This was by means of a fictitious suit for the recovery of the lands. The actual proceedings in such suits in process of time became very complicated ; but essentially they con&not; sisted of an action against the owner of the estate tail, by a person called the demandant, for the recovery of the lands. The cause had to come formally to a hear&not; ing, and when the claim was made the tenant in tail, used to produce the usher of the court, or some other person having as little to do with the matter, as the original grantor of the estate tail, and call on him to warrant or make good his title. The demandant used then to obtain permission to speak to this person in private, and take him out of court. In his absence judg&not; ment had to be given in favour of the demandant, on the ground that the person bound to warrant the estate was not forthcoming to do so. And this judgment
gave a fee-simple estate, instead of the estate in tail, or the entail was said to be barred. The right to perform this juggle was held to belong to every owner of an estate tail, and the juggle itself, wrapped up in many complicated forms, continued to be the only means by which an estate tail could be barred, until it was abolished, in the year 1833, by the Act under which estates tail are at present barred. Under this statute a tenant in tail in possession by a deed in accordance with the Act can bar the entail and make himself owner of the land in fee simple. But this right must be exercised by deed. An estate tail cannot be barred by will. Besides the right of making his estate one in fee simple, the owner of an estate tail in possession now- a-days has very wide powers over the land. He may cut timber and open mines ; he may grant leases, under restrictions which allow him greater latitude than is given to a tenant for life, but still confine him within very narrow bounds when the absolute power of leasing possessed by a tenant in fee simple is remem&not; bered. His estate is also, though by recent law, subject to his debts, and on treason is liable to forfeiture to the Crown. With regard to the rights of widows, and to descent, it is so similar to an estate in fee simple, that these incidents of both are better considered together. An estate in fee simple&mdash;the largest estate in land recognised by English law&mdash;is an estate granted to a man and his heirs. Although this is so very large an estate that in common language a tenant in fee simple is talked of as owning the land out and out, yet it is only an estate held of a lord, and is widely different
from tlie absolute ownership may enjoyed a piece of furniture. The early history of this species of estate, as has been already stated, is very obscure, and we know little about it, except that in the reign of Henry III. it was clearly established that the owner of such an estate had, like the owner of an estate tail, a right to alienate it, so as to destroy the claim of his heirs to the succession, and to affect the lord&rsquo;s prospect of regaining the estate by a failure of heirs to inherit. The statute De donis destroyed this right of the owners of estates tail, but did not affect in any way estates in fee simple, and so far as the right to dispose of such estates without re&not; ference to any claim of the heirs to succeed, the law as it existed in Henry III. &rsquo;s time has remained un&not; altered. The right to alienate the estate so as to affect the prospect of the lord regaining the land on a failure of heirs has had a very different history. As has been stated, the common method of alienation in the days of the infancy of our land laws was by sub&not; letting, or subinfeudation, as it was termed. This sys&not; tem, besides affecting the lord&rsquo;s chance of regaining his lands, caused the creation of a large number of middle&not; men between the superior lord and the tenant in actual possession of the lands ; and as in many ways it was to the advantage of a lord that the lands should be held by his immediate tenant, the lord&rsquo;s interest suffered. As the lords took care of their interest in the reversion of estates tail by passing De donis, so five years later they secured themselves against this species of damage by passing another statute, called Quia emptores, from its first two words. By this statute the right of every freeman to sell his lands at pleasure was given,
but so that the purchaser should hold the lands of the superior lord at the same services and customs as the vendor held them. Since the passing of this statute owners of estates in fee simple have been at liberty to sell their lands if they choose ; but should they sell their whole estate in them, they cannot reserve any rent. So long as the technical estate in fee simple is not parted with, the owner may let the land on lease at a rent for thou&not; sands of years, but if the fee simple goes no rent can be reserved. There are means by which annual sums, practically as valuable as rent, are made payable out of fee-simple estates, but no rent, in the technical and proper sense of the word, can be reserved&mdash;nor, of course, can the relationship of landlord and tenant be created. Although the right of alienating fee-simple estates was thus established, it must be remembered that it extended only to alienation during the lifetime of the owner. It gave no power of disposition by will ; so, in the event of the owner dying, his estate, like an estate tail, descended uncontrolled by his wishes. The citizens of London and of a few other places possessed alone the power of devising their lands. After the establishment of the right of alienation inter vivos, this want of the power of disposition by will became seriously felt ; and in the fifteenth century lawyers and ecclesiastics seem to have joined in the invention of a plan which gave it indirectly. This was the plan of conveying lands to such uses as the owner might by his will appoint, and then appointing or naming the uses in the will. The Court of Chancery, in those days a semi-ecclesiastical tribunal, held that when the land
was conveyed to uses, the legal owner of the land held it for the person having the use&mdash;in our modern lan&not; guage, held it in trust for him&mdash;and took care that this beneficial owner should have all the enjoyment of the land. For another century at least, this was the only way in which an ordinary Englishman could dispose of his lands by will, and it was very extensively adopted. At last, after this legalised evasion of the law had again and again excited the attention of Parliament and the ordinary law courts, a very celebrated statute was passed in the reign of Henry VIII., by which, practically, it was enacted that persons having the use or beneficial ownership of lands, should be deemed in lawful posses&not; sion of such lands ; so that a grant of land to A. to the use of B. gave and still gives the land to B. This statute destroyed the device by which the law had so long been evaded ; but five years afterwards Parliament passed an Act giving a wide power of devising land by will, and on the abolition of feudal tenures at the Restoration, the power became universal. The owner of an estate in fee simple now, therefore, has, as a rule, a full right of disposing of his land, either while living or by his will, but to this power of alienation there is still some restraint. Thus, by the Mortmain Acts, lands can only be conveyed to charitable uses, with some exceptions, under very stringent provisions, and they cannot be devised to such uses at all by will. No lands either can be con&not; veyed to any corporation, except it has a licence to hold lands from the Crown. The owner of an estate in fee simple is of course subject to none of the restraints on the enjoyment of his
land to which tenants in life or in tail are. He can lease, cut timber, open mines, at will&mdash;in fact, he can use the land as he wishes. An estate in fee simple is liable to the payment of all the owner&rsquo;s debts : a statement which might be thought superfluous, but for the fact that this has only been the law since 1833. In cases where the owner is attainted of high treason, the lands are for&not; feited to the Crown, and if attainted for murder, they escheat or revert to the lord, who in most cases is the Crown. The descent of estates in fee simple and in tail is now regulated by an Act passed in 1833 ; but the old law, which was much more involved than that which now obtains, still governs any descent on the decease of any person who died before January 1, 1834. By the law now in force inheritances lineally descend to the issue of the last purchaser&mdash;the word &lsquo; purchaser &rsquo; meaning technically a person taking land otherwise than by descent, so that a devisee under a will equally with a person buying the land would be called a pur&not; chaser. In this descent the male issue is preferred to the female, and where the male issue are of the same degree of consanguinity the eldest only inherits ; but females inherit together. Lineal descendants also re&not; present their ancestor. Thus if A. B. died possessed of an estate in fee simple or in tail general, that estate would descend to his eldest son if he had one, and on the death of the eldest son without issue to the second son, and so on through the sons until they were ex&not; hausted. Then it would go to the daughters, each of whom would take an equal share ; but if any one of the children died leaving issue, the issue would succeed
as their father or mother would have done, had he or she been living. In case of a &lsquo; purchaser &rsquo; dying without issue, the rules of the descent of a fee-simple estate are too elaborate to be set out here, but all the preceding- canons are applicable to collaterals as well as issue. It need scarcely be said that in a system of law pos&not; sessing such a history as that relating to land, the por&not; tion which governs the relationship of husband and wife as very peculiar. The old law was simple. A husband and wife became one by marriage, and the husband acquired a right to the rents and profits of the wife&rsquo;s estates of inheri&not; tance during her life, and might dispose of them as he wished to the extent of that interest. If there was issue born of the marriage, which could by any possi&not; bility succeed to the estate, the husband, if he survived the wife, held the lands for the remainder of his life, as tenant by the courtesy of England. The actual land itself might be disposed of by husband and wife jointly during the marriage, but not by either alone. So much as to the rights of the husband in the wife&rsquo;s lands ; as to those of the wife in her husband&rsquo;s, she had none during his life, but on his death she was en&not; titled for the rest of her life to one third of the lands which the husband had at any time during the mar&not; riage owned in fee simple or in tail, and to which any issue she might have had might have been heir. This was called the wife&rsquo;s dower. No equitable estate was sufficient to give dower; it must have been one of which the husband, to use the technical expression, was seised. So far as the husband&rsquo;s interest in the wife&rsquo;s lands goes, the old law remains practically unchanged, except that the husband cannot dispose of the rents and pro-
fits of the wife&rsquo;s lands during her life without her con&not; sent; hut in 1833 the law of dower was amended, and women married since the 31st December of that year come under the new Act. By this no widow is entitled to dower out of any land which shall have been absolutely disposed of by her husband in his lifetime or by his will, and all debts and encumbrances to which the lands might be liable, are effectual against dower, or the husband even may deprive his wife of the right by a simple declaration made in any deed or by his will. On the other hand, the wife may have dower now out of the husband&rsquo;s equitable as well as legal estate. But in practice very little land is affected by these laws regulating either descent or the rights of husband and wife. Almost all the soil of England, as has been before stated, is subject to settlements ; and by these settlements the extent of the estate taken by each person is defined, the line of descent is pointed out, and the rights of all persons interested in the lands esta&not; blished. To understand the first principles of our land laws, therefore, it is necessary to comprehend the object and scope of an ordinary marriage settlement. The object of these instruments is to preserve the land in a family, and to make provision for the various persons interested in the property. But the law will not permit land to be tied up beyond certain limits. Mere limited estates in land cannot be given to an in&not; definite series of owners ; nor can any estate now exist like those in tail which existed from the passing of De donis to the decision in Taltarum&rsquo;s case, except in some lands, such as Blenheim and Str&agrave;thfieldsaye, which have been settled on certain families by Act of Parliament as a reward for eminent services. A mar-
riage settlement, therefore, can only tie up the land for atime; anything like perpetuity must be obtained by making a new settlement every generation. The simplest way of explaining a marriage settlement is by taking a supposititious case. Let us imagine that a man with 2,000i. a year in land is about to marry. He would then settle his estate in some such way as this. He would give himself an estate for life, with perhaps somewhat fuller powers of enjoyment than the law would attach to such an estate if given simply. After that he would give an estate to trustees, which would fall into their possession on his death, and which they would hold on trust to receive, say, 300&Iacute;. a year out of the rents, and pay it to his widow during her life. Another estate would follow to another set of trustees on trust, to sell or mortgage the land so as to raise, say, 10,000&iacute;. for his younger children. Estates tail would then be given to the sons of the marriage, according to age, followed by an estate tail to all the daughters, and finally an estate in fee to the settlor. This, of course, is one of the simplest of settlements, but it will suffice for our purpose. It will be seen that the settlor enjoys his land during his life, but cannot in any way deal with it so as to injure the provision made for his wife and children. On his death, his wife gets her annuity ; and the eldest son, who succeeds in tail, takes the estate, subject to the payment of this annuity, and subject also to the payment of 10,000&iquest;. to his brothers and sisters. If he wishes to have the estate clear, he must save or obtain this sum. Any son being of age may, when he comes into the estate as tenant in tail, bar the entail and do what he wishes with the land (only this will not affect the annuity to
bis mother or the 10,000&iacute;.); and this is usually done on the marriage of the tenant in tail, when the estate is tied up for another generation. Until barred, the estate in tail will, of course, descend in the ordinary way through the settlor&rsquo;s issue, and on failure of the issue will expire. The estate in fee simple then arises, and the lands will go to the heir-general of the settlor. From this it will be seen that many of the greatest peculiarities in the manner in which the soil of Eng&not; land is held result from custom rather than from pure law. The quantity of land which descends by virtue of the law of primogeniture is exceedingly small. Nearly all land descends as it is arranged it shall descend by the owners when the claims of all persons having any interest in the family property are considered. Usually the estate is given to the eldest son, and usually it reaches him burthened with charges in favour of other members of the family, except a provision can be made for them otherwise.,c
LECTURE III. Estates in expectancy&mdash;Reversions and Remainders&mdash;Legal and equi&not; table estates&mdash;Origin of equitable estates&mdash;Restraint on the creation of future estates&mdash;Copyholds&mdash;Their history&mdash;Rights of copyholders &mdash;Their history&mdash;Leases for terms of years&mdash;Their peculiarities &mdash; Mortgages&mdash;Methods of conveying land. Heretofore we have been dealing with actual estates in the possession of their owners, but estates of almost every description may exist in pure expectancy&mdash; the owners only entering into possession when the prior estates have determined or come to an end. Such estates may be for life or in tail, or in fee or for terms of years. And the same lands may be subject to all these different species of estates at one and the same time. Thus land may be given to A. for life, then to B. for life. In such case B.&rsquo;s estate is purely expectant&mdash;he can derive no profit from the land until A. dies, &aacute;nd any further life estate&mdash;and they may be created ad infini&not; tum so long as the donees are living&mdash;must in its turn be deferred until B.&rsquo;s has come to an end. So lands may be given to A. for life, then to B. in tail, then to C. in fee simple. In such case B. does not enjoy the lands until the determination of A.&rsquo;s estate, and C. in his turn must await the determination of B.&rsquo;s. These future estates are divided by lawyers into two great classes&mdash;estates in remainder, and estates in rever&not; sion. The distinction between these classes will be easily
understood if the position of the owner in fee simple of a piece of land who carves a smaller estate out of it he remembered. Suppose, for example, he grants a life estate only, it is evident that only part of his estate has been granted and there is still a large portion left ; for though he has parted with the temporary possession of the land, it must eventually return or revert to him or his heirs. This right, therefore, is called the right of reversion, and the landlord is said to have his estate in reversion. Supposing, however, after the grant of the life estate the owner in fee grants out of the portion left another estate, say, an estate tail, or grants the whole of his reversion to another person, then the estate of that other person is called a remainder : the reversion being the right of the original grantor of a smaller estate than that which he possessed to get his lands back on the determination of that smaller estate, and the remainder being the right to get the lands on such determination by virtue of a grant from the grantor of the estate in possession. Thus it will be seen that between the owner of an estate in reversion and the tenant of the estate in possession tenure always exists, as the tenant must have derived his estate from the reversioner or his ancestors in title, while no tenure can exist between the tenant of the estate in posses&not; sion and the owner of an estate in remainder, both having derived their estate from the same source&mdash;the grant of the owner in fee. There is another class of future estates, called executory interests, too tech&not; nical to be described here. Again, estates in land may be legal or equitable, and that this distinction may be understood it is necessary to explain a relic of ancient law which still plays a very
important part in all dealings with land. In the earlier days of our land laws the actual possessor of the land was for all purposes deemed the owner. It was from him the duties incident to the holding of the lands were due, and it was he that had the right of enjoying the lands. The freeholder who actually possessed the land, therefore, no matter whether his estate was for life or in tail or in fee, was deemed to have the feudal possession, or, as it was technically called, the seisin, of it, and the freehold was said to be in him, or that he was seised. So much importance was attached to this feudal pos&not; session that rigid rules obtained as to its transfer and devolution, and the law courts at Westminster steadily refused to regard any estate in possession in land except that which existed in the person having the seisin ; hut the Court of Chancery, desirous of aiding the Church to avoid the mortmain laws, and not being guided by strict rules of law, but by certain ethical or moral principles, introduced the doctrine, that though the feudal possessor was, in the eyes of the law, the person actually in the enjoyment of the lands, yet there might be cases where some other person had such a moral right to the lands, that though the seisin was not in him, the court would compel the person in whom it was to yield all the benefit derivable from the land to him. The conflict, not only between the Court of Chancery and the Courts of Westminster, but between the Court of Chancery and the Legislature, respecting this doctrine, was long and bitter, but in the end the Court of Chancery conquered, and the doctrine has now for centuries been firmly established, and on it rests a wide and complicated branch of law. The distinction,
therefore, between legal and equitable estates is, that the owner of a legal estate h&acirc;s the feudal possession or seisin of the land, and is the only person recognised by the courts at Westminster Hall ; while the owner of the equitable estate, although not recognised by the courts of law as having any right to the lands, is yet held in equity to be the person entitled to all the enjoy&not; ment and profit arising from them according to the extent of his estate, and his rights are enforced by the Court of Chancery at Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn. Hence we have two sets of courts dealing with land on entirely different codes of principles ; so that if a grant of land be made to A. in trust for B., at Westminster Hall A. is held to be the owner, and B. is of no account, but at Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn B. is held to be the owner, and A. will not be per&not; mitted to derive one shilling out of the property. One of the effects of the Lord Chancellor&rsquo;s Bill now before Parliament would be that both legal and equitable estates would be recognised in all the courts. Notwith&not; standing this conflict of principles, the province of each set of courts is so clearly defined that little prac&not; tical difficulty arises from it. A man goes to law for the enforcement of one species of right, and he goes to equity for the enforcement of another, but in all dealings with land the double estates, legal and equi&not; table, which may and so commonly do exist, must be always carefully borne in mind. In truth, it would be impossible to deal with land so as to satisfy the requirements of modern society if equitable estates did not exist. It is by means of them that the rights of married women and younger children are secured in settlements, and even in ordinary busi&not; ness transactions they allow an elasticity of dealing
with land which would be quite impossible if the strict law as to legal estates alone obtained. The Court of Chancery will, however, follow the law whenever it can do so consistently with the strict prin&not; ciples of equity. So far, therefore, as extent and descent, and in many other respects, the law as to equitable estates is the same as that of legal. Thus, if an estate be settled in trust for B. in tail, B.&rsquo;s estate will descend to his issue if unbarred, and he will take the rents and profits of the estate to the same extent, and possess just the same right of barring the entail and investing himself with the equitable fee, as if he had a legal estate. But at the same time, the Court of Chancery will not recognise many of the mere technicalities of the courts of law. It is evident that if some limitation were not put to this power of creating a succession of estates coming into possession one after the other, land could be practically rendered inalienable, to the great injury of the community. This limitation does exist in two rules of law. One of these declares that no life estate can be given to the unborn child of a living person, followed by an estate in remainder to any of the issue of such unborn child. The other declares that no executory estate can arise except within the period of some fixed lives actually living at the time of the creation of the executory estate, and twenty-one years after the death of the last of such lives. These rules absolutely prevent land being tied up by any settle&not; ment for a longer period than twenty-one years after the death of some person living at the date of the making of the settlement. Of estates in land not freehold, that is, copyholds
and leaseholds for terms of years, copyholds are best considered first, as in many ways they resemble free&not; holds. As has been already stated, when great lords obtained a grant of a large tract of land, their usual and indeed only way of making it profitable was by subletting the portion not actually cultivated by themselves, and so it became customary to grant large pieces to freemen, who held these freeholds of the lord, subject to the performance of various services. The portion held by the lord for his own immediate use was cultivated by his serfs, a portion usually being given to them for their own subsistence. This was the origin of manors, a modern manor being simply one of these old estates ; the freeholds of the manor&mdash;the lands formerly let to freemen, the copyholds&mdash;the lands given to the serfs for their subsistence, the commons&mdash;the waste lands which the lord did not trouble himself to allot, but allowed all his tenants to use if they pleased, the manorial rights&mdash;the remnants of the old feudal ser&not; vices, and all the machinery of courts and stewards&mdash; the old methods of managing the estate. But the statute Quia emptores made a great change in all this. Thenceforth, the lords could no longer grant estates in fee and reserve any services, or create the relationship of landlord and tenant. Hence, since the passing of that Act, the creation of a manor has been impossible, and all the manors now existing had their origin before the 18 th year of Edward I. This custom of granting a piece of land to the serf, that he might cultivate it for himself, was such a natural way in those times for providing for the sub&not; sistence of the villein, that it probably prevailed from
the first, especially as many of these villeins were not held &lsquo; in gross,&rsquo; as it was technically called, that is, as a purely personal chattel, like a slave was held in the United States before the abolition of slavery, but were &lsquo; villeins regardant,&rsquo; or serfs that the lord could not dispose of except with the land to which they were attached. The whole of the history, not alone of the steps by which these slaves acquired a definite interest in their holdings, originally granted in lieu of mere food and clothing, but also of the extinction of the slavery of Englishmen in England, is exceedingly obscure. It is impossible even to say exactly when the institution of serfdom ceased to exist. For it died out, and has never been abolished by law. Actual sales of villeins took place as late as Queen Elizabeth&rsquo;s day, and other traces might be discovered many years later. Forms of enfranchisement did not disappear from the ordinary law books in use until about the time of the Common&not; wealth. We can tell definitely enough when serfs became so absolutely entitled to their holdings that they ceased to be slaves, but how this came about is very obscure. The wide diversity of customs in manors shows how arbitrary was the will of the lords. In some the pieces of land were simply granted to the serfs without any right of succession being recognised in the children. In others the lord permitted all the sons, or perhaps the eldest or youngest, to succeed to the father&rsquo;s holding, or in default of issue let it go to the collateral relatives. In process of time all these capricious rules became esta&not; blished as customs, and the descent of copyholds is still regulated by them. No doubt the villeins were much aided in acquiring
fixity of tenure by the custom of granting lands to the humblest classes of freemen to hold by villein services&mdash;that is, menial services which were deemed fit only for a serf. This custom existed from the first, and it gradually extended so far that when fixity of tenure was secured to copyholders, very few of them can have been villeins in blood and tenure&mdash;that is, pure slaves. However this may be, their fixity of tenure was acquired very gradually. In the time of Edward III. we find traces of those villeins having acquired some right in their holdings, but it was not until the reign of Edward IV. that certainty of tenure was definitely given to them by a decision of the judges. Now-a-days, therefore, a copyholder holds his land by as good a title as a freeholder, but he holds a very dif&not; ferent species of estate, and holds it in a very different way. He holds his estate by copy of the court roll of the manor, and subject to the custom of the manor. He may have an estate in fee, or in tail, or for life, ac&not; cording to that custom, but the descent of those estates &mdash;that for life, being renewable, is practically an es&not; tate of inheritance&mdash;is regulated by the same custom. In some manors those copyhold estates descend like similar freehold estates ; in others the usual line of descent is broken by some peculiar customs ; so the rights of husband and wife are regulated by custom ; no general rule can be laid down for them in respect of copyholds. So, too, with regard to the conveyance of copyholds, it must be done by surrender of the lands to the lord, and the admittance of the new owner according to the custom of the manor. Subject, how&not; ever, to all these customs, copyholds may be practically sold, devised by will, and settled like freeholds. They
are also liable for their owner&rsquo;s debts, though only since 1838 . The copyholder, being in strict law a person holding the land merely at the will of the lord, is not held to have the feudal possession or seisin of it&mdash;that is in the lord. This relic of ancient seignorial rights is still valuable to a lord. He owns all the timber on the land, and all the minerals beneath it, though he must have the copyholder&rsquo;s permission to enter and cut the timber, or open the mines. Besides these advantages, the lord possesses many others. On every change of tenancy fines are payable to him, and he has his chance of getting back the land by escheat on the failure of heirs of the copyholder, or on his attainder. In many manors, too, money is payable to the lord as rent, or as a relief. Heriots also are due by custom of some manors&mdash;a heriot being some particular chattel or sum of money which the lord has a right to on the death of a tenant. It will be seen that many of these peculiarities may prove troublesome to landlords or copyholders. So, of late years, Acts of Parliament have been passed, under which either may procure the enfranchisement of the land&mdash;in other words, have the copyhold turned into a freehold. One of the most common modes of holding land in our day is by a lease for a term of years, a method scarcely known when freeholds and copyholds came into existence ; and even long after lands Avere held in this way, the estate so given was deemed of little value or importance. None of the feudal services attached to these lease&not; holds ; the tenant was bound simply to pay his rent, or
perform any special services he covenanted to perform, and none of the feudal rights which possession of the seisin gave the freeholder belonged to the leaseholder. He merely possessed the rights over the land demised which were actually given by the lease, and often those rights were very restricted, as most of the early leases were simply for agricultural purposes and for short terms. As these estates were subject to no feudal services or burthens, neither were they subject to the feudal law of inheritance. They were deemed mere personal property, and on intestacy went to the next of kin, like money or cattle. No change has ever been made in this respect, although now leases for terms of years are often granted for such a length of time, and with so few restrictions on enjoyment, that they are practically as valuable as estates in fee simple. There is another species of interest in land extremely common&mdash;a mortgage debt. To this all lands are sub&not; ject, as every man may mortgage his land to the extent of his estate. The common form of a mortgage con&not; sists of a grant of the land from the debtor to the creditor, with a condition that if the money borrowed be repaid at some fixed date, the creditor will re-convey the land to the debtor. As a matter of fact, the money is never paid or intended to be paid at the stipulated time, and consequently a relationship is established between the creditor and debtor which fully illustrates the working of our system of legal and equitable estates. The debtor, not having fulfilled the formal condition as to the payment of the debt, is held by the courts of law at Westminster to have parted absolutely with his land, while the creditor is looked on as the real owner of it. But a very different view of the
position is taken by the Court of Chancery. True, it says, the condition has not been observed, but then the land was really only conveyed as a security for the debt, and whenever the debtor pays it off the creditor must reconvey the land ; if the creditor wishes to have his money or the land definitely, he must come to this court and get a time fixed for payment, then if such payment be not duly made, we shall allow the creditor to retain the land absolutely. In short, the law courts will look merely to the form of the contract, but the Chancery Court will regard the meaning which in good faith and equity should be attached to it. The position, therefore, of a mortgagor of land is this :&mdash;The legal estate in his land is vested in the mortgagee conditionally before the day named in the mortgage deed for payment of the debt, so that if the debt was paid on the day, both in law and equity the mortgagee is bound to reconvey the land. If, however, this day be allowed to pass without payment, the mort&not; gagor&rsquo;s right to relief is gone at law, but in the eyes of the Court of Chancery he still possesses a right&mdash;called his equity of redemption&mdash;to pay the debt, and have a reconveyance of the land at any time before this right is barred. For, of course, this right cannot exist for ever, or the conveyance of the land would be of little advan&not; tage to the mortgagee. It is always open to the mort&not; gagee, after the date of payment, to get the Court of Chancery to fix a day for the positive payment of the debt, and if it be not paid on that day, then the equity of redemption will be foreclosed or barred, and the land remain the property of the mortgagor. As a matter of fact, this last event rarely happens, for if the lands mortgaged are of greater value than the amount due to
the mortgagee, they are always sold, the debt paid out of the purchase money, and the balance paid to the mortgagor. We have, finally, to deal with the present mode of conveying land. The actual mode of conveyance is simple enough ; freeholds are conveyed by a deed of grant ; copyholds by a formal surrender of the land to the lord, followed by his admittance of the new tenant to it ; leaseholds for a term of years by deed of as&not; signment. But it is very different when the extent of the estate to be conveyed has to be determined and verified. It will easily be seen that as land may be subject to so many different species of estates, and as so many persons may have the rights and interests in it which have been described, not to speak of a host of other rights&mdash;those of way, water, light, shooting, which have not been touched on&mdash;the greatest care must be exercised by a purchaser lest in buying land he finds his purchase subject to any of those estates or rights. The way this is done in practice is by examin&not; ing all the deeds relating to the land which have been executed for many years prior to the sale. This is called investigating the title of the person owning the land, and as, in the absence of a special agreement, every vendor of land must show a sixty years&rsquo; title, it can easily be understood that the process is troublesome and expensive. Many plans have been suggested for lessening this trouble and expense, all of them turning, more or less, on the institution of a public registry for contracts relating to land ; but none has yet been pro&not; posed that quite meets the wants of so complicated a society as ours, and still every person purchasing land must rely on the acuteness and skill of bus legal advisers for protection.
TANDON : PRINTED,SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STBBBT SQCARB,PARLIAMENT STREET
% Calalo&oslash;m,Henry S, King &amp;amp; Co/s PUBLICATIONS.,LONDON : 65, CORNHILL, and 12, PATERNOSTER ROW. 1873- I ~~ &#39;
March, 1873.,Jfmrg S. Jlm&oslash; й Co.&rsquo;s l&igrave;uMimtmns.,THE RELIGIOUS HISTORY OF IRELAND: PRIMITIVE, PAPAL, AND PROTESTANT, INCLUDING THE EVANGELICAL MISSIONS, CATHOLIC AGITATIONS, AND CHURCH PROGRESS OF THE LAST HALF CENTURY. By JAMES GODKIN, Author of &ldquo; Ireland, her Churches,&rdquo; etc. i voi. 8vo. {Preparing . IRELAND IN 1872. A TOUR OF OBSERVATION, WITH REMARKS ON IRISH PUBLIC QUESTIONS. By Ur. JAMES MACAULAY. Crown 8vo. 7 s. 6 d.,MEMOIR AND LETTERS OF SARA COLERIDGE.,2 vols. crown 8vo. With Portraits. [In the Press.,LOMBARD STREET. A Description of the Money Market. By WALTER BAGEHOT. Large crown 8vo. {In the press . THE GREAT DUTCH ADMIRALS. By JACOB DE LIEFDE. Crown 8 vo. Illustrated. Price 5&iquest;.,POLITICAL WOMEN. By SUTHERLAND MENZIĽS. 2 vols. post 8 VO.,{In the press .,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
EGYPT AS IT IS. By Herr HEINRICH STEPHAN, The German Postmaster-General. Crown 8vo. With a new Map of the Country. [Preparing.,IMPERIAL GERMANY. By FREDERIC MARTIN, Author of &ldquo; The Statesman&rsquo;s Year Book,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. [ Preparing .,THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NATIONAL DEFENCE. By JULES FAVRE. [rearing.,&rsquo;İL&Acirc;M &Euml;N N&Acirc;S. Historical Tales and Anecdotes of the Times of the Early Khalifahs. Translated from the originals by Mrs. GODFREY CLERK, Author of &ldquo;The Antipodes and Round the World.&rdquo; Crown 8vo. [In the &yacute;ress.,IN STRANGE COMPANY; Or, The NOTE BOOK of a ROVING CORRESPONDENT. By JAMES GREENWOOD, &ldquo; The Amateur Casual.&rdquo; Crown 8vo. [. Preparing .,NEWMARKET AND ARABIA:,AN examination of the descent of racers and coursers. &bull; И &Xi; -B&Yacute; &#39;r&Acirc;ger- Df UPTON. .йлКч&#39;сдк р&#39;дАладнтиа ж Crown 8vo. Illustrated. [ Preparing ,. ___ jvS 320q л &#39; ■ i a,&mdash; 65 , Comhill ; &Auml;&#39;A&Uuml;,I 2,,Pah rn&agrave;sfcr PmC Xwdariy ~
THE RECONCILIATION OF RELIGION AND SCIENCE. Being Essays by the Rey. J. W. FOWLE, M.A.,i voi., 8vo.,[In the press.,THEOLOGY AND MORALITY. Being Essays by the Rev. J. LLEWELLYN DAVIES. i voi., 8vo. [F&rsquo; &iacute;r pi _ MUTUA И,A VOLUME OF ESSAYS. Edited ey the Most Reverend ARCHBISHOP MANNING. _ [. Preparing . FIELD AND FOREST RAMBLES A 0V &rsquo; A NATURALIST IN NEW BRUNSWICK. Si V. V.Li-107 i ortjlU WITH NQTES AND OBSERVATIONS ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF EASTERN CANADA.,j&iacute;c&iacute;cwL;,io3 oY7 &rsquo; t io J,By A. LEITH ADAMS, M.A&middot;., &lambda;&chi;., Author of &ldquo;Wanderings of a Naturalist İn India,&quot; &iquest;c., &amp;amp;c. if 9,In 8vo, cloth. Illustrated. 14г.,.qiri^ialoxioa t sA ,&omicron;ί&nu;; : wifcgoiqmi &chi;&tau;&omicron;&nu; i.-j -ίί ne. Io Tg&iacute;ms&iacute;b s&iacute;it,THE FAYOUM ; OR, ARTISTS IN EGYPT. By J. LENOIR. Translated j&iexcl;y M ; rş&icirc;, CĄS -ДЕЕ HQEY. Crown 8vo, cloth, j Ilkist^ratctţ&middot;,[/ 7 1 the press. - -- АЛ di&iuml; &raquo; 5 &Igrave;0 &Iuml;OA&Icirc;UA TENT LIFE WITH ENGLISH GYPSIES IN NORWAY. j -Ln &raquo;t io lief &amp;gt;:rC adl ui bic orl &iacute;/ ozońT лхЛТ By HUBERT SMITH. ύ.&#39;, .&Lambda;&mdash; .l&iacute;/Udgibb Ьяй a-/il3&uuml;&iuml;l8&laquo;i sono In 8vo, cloth. 12 Illustrations. Price ги.,65 , Cornhill; 12 , Phicr-tiOstcr Ŕo r &eacute;&yacute; : Lohd&oacute;n-.
THE GATEWAY TO THE POLYNIA; OR, A VOYAGE TO SPITZBERGEN. By Captain JOHN C. WELLS, R.N. In 8 vo, cloth. Profusely illustrated. [In the press.,A WINTER IN MOROCCO. By AMELIA PERRIER. Large crown 8 vo. Illustrated. {In the press. AN AUTUMN TOUR IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. By Lieut.-Colonel JULIUS GEORGE MEDLEY. Crown 8 vo. Price 5 s. [In the press.,BOKHARA: ITS HISTORY AND CONQUEST. By Professor ARMINIUS V&Agrave;MB&Egrave;RY, Of the University of Pest&igrave;i, Author of &ldquo; Travels in Central Asia,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c.,Demy Svo. &ldquo; We conclude with a cordial recommen&not; dation of this valuable book. In former years, Mr. Vambery gave ample proofs of his powers as an observant, easy, and vivid writer. In the present work his modera&not; tion, scholarship, insight, and occasionally very impressive style, have raised him to the dignity of an historian .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review. &ldquo; Almost every page abounds with com-,i8i. position of peculiar merit, as well as with an account of some thrilling event more excit&not; ing than any to be found in an ordinary work of fiction .&rdquo;&mdash;Morning Post. &ldquo;A work compiled from many rare, private, and unavailable manuscripts and records, which consequently cannot fail to prove a mine of delightful Eastern lore to the Oriental scholar .&rdquo;&mdash;Liverpool Albion.,ECHOES OF A FAMOUS YEAR. By HARRIET PARR, Author of &ldquo; The Life of Jeanne d&rsquo;Arc,&rdquo; &ldquo; In the Silver Age,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Crown 8 vo. 8 s. 6d.,&ldquo;A graceful and touching, as well as truthful account of the Franco-Prussian War. Those who are in the habit of read&not; ing books to children will find this at once instructive and delightful .&rdquo;&mdash;Public Opinion.,&ldquo; Miss Parr has the great gift of charm&not; ing simplicity of style ; and if children are not interested in her book, many of their seniors will be .&rdquo;&mdash;British Quarterly Re&not; view.,65, Cornhill; ćr&middot; &pi;, Paternoster Row, London.
OVER VOLCANOES ; Or, THROUGH FRANCE AND SPAIN IN 1871. By A. KINOSHAN.,&ldquo;The writer&rsquo;s tone is so pleasant, his language is so good, and his spirits are so fresh, buoyant, and exhilarating, that you find yourself inveigled into reading, for the thousand-and-first time, a description of a Spanish bull-fight .&rdquo;&mdash;Illustrated Lon&not; don News. &ldquo;The adventures of our tourists are related with a good deal of pleasantry and,ios, 6 d. humorous dash, which make the narrative agreeable reading .&rdquo;&mdash;Public Opinion. &ldquo; A work which we cordially recommend to such readers as desire to know some&not; thing of Spain as she is to-day. Indeed, so fresh and original is it, that we could have wished that it had been a bigger book than it is .&rdquo;&mdash;Literary World.,ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE. CORRESPONDENCE AND CONVERSATIONS WITH NASSAU W. SENIOR FROM 1833 TO 1859. Edited by Mrs. M. C. M. SIMPSON. 2 vols., large post 8vo. 2 is.,&ldquo;Another Of those interesting journals in which Mr. Senior has, as it were, crys&not; tallized the sayings of some of those many remarkable men with whom he came in contact .&rdquo;&mdash;Morning Post. &ldquo;A book replete with knowledge and thought. Quarterly Review.,&ldquo; An extremely interesting book, and a singularly good illustration of the value which, even in an age of newspapers and magazines, memoirs have and will always continue to have for the purposes of his&not; tory .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review.,JOURNALS KEPT IN FRANCE AND ITALY,,FROM 1848 TO 1852. WITH A SKETCH OF THE REVOLUTION OF 1848. By the late NASSAU WILLIAM SENIOR. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson. In 2 vols., post 8vo. 24 s.,&ldquo;The present volume gives us conver&not; sations with some of the most prominent men in the political history of France and Italy ... as well as with others whose names are not so familiar or are hidden under initials. Mr. Senior has the art of inspiring all men with frankness, and of persuading them to put themselves unre&not;,servedly in his hands without fear of private circulation .&rdquo;&mdash; A then&oelig;um. &ldquo;The book has a genuine historical value .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review. &ldquo;No better, more honest, and more read&not; able view of the state of political society during the existence of the second Republic I could well be looked for.&rdquo;&mdash; Examiner.,65 , Cornhill; 12 , Paternoster Row, London.
A MEMOIR OF NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, WITH STORIES NOW FIRST PUBLISHED IN THIS COUNTRY.,By h. i Large post &middot;,&nu; H The Memoir is followed by a criticism of Hąwthorne as a writer ; and the criticism, though we should be inclined to dissent foęąn particular sentiments, is, on the whole, i&iacute;#ry well written, and exhibits a discrimi&not; nating enthusiasm for one of the most fas&not; cinating of novelists .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review. &ldquo; Seldom has it been our lot to meet with a more appreciative delineation of character than this Memoir of Hawthorne . . . Mr. Page deserves the best thanks of every admirer of Hawthorne for the way in which he has gathered together these relics, and,V. PAGE. 8vo. 7 s. 6 d. given them to the world, as well as for his admirable portraiture of their authors life and character .&quot;&mdash;Morning Post. &ldquo;We sympathise very heartily with an effort of Mr. H. A. Page to make English readers better acquainted with the life and character of Nathaniel Hawthorne . . . He has done full justice to the fine cha&not; racter of the author of &lsquo; The Scarlet Letter.&rsquo; &quot;&mdash; Standard. &ldquo; He has produced a well-written and complete Memoir . . . A model of literary work of art. &rdquo;&mdash;Edinburgh Courant.,MEMOIRS OF LEONORA CHRISTINA, DAUGHTER OF CHRISTIAN IV. OF DENMARK : WRITTEN DURING HER IMPRISONMENT IN THE BLUE TOWER OF THE ROYAL PALACE AT COPENHAGEN, 1663&mdash;1685. Translated by F. E. BUNNETT, Translator of Grimm&rsquo;s &ldquo; Life of Michael Angelo,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. With an Autotype portrait of the Princess. Medium 8vo. 12 s. 6 d. &ldquo;A valuable addition to history.&rdquo;&mdash; I which we gratefully recognize a valuable Daily News. addition to the tragic romance of history.&rdquo; &ldquo; This remarkable autobiography, in | &mdash; Spectator.,LIVES OF ENGLISH POPULAR LEADERS. No. Ł STEPHEN LANGTON. By C. EDMUND MAURICE.,Crown 8vo. 7 s. 6 d.,&ldquo; Mr. Maurice has written a very inte&not; resting book, which may be read with equal pleasure and profit .&rdquo;&mdash;Morning Post. &ldquo; The volume contains many interesting,details, including some important docu&not; ments. It will amply repay those who read it, whether as a chapter of the consti&not; tutional history of England or as the life of a great Englishman.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator.,65, Cornhill; &ocirc;-= 12, Paternoster Row, London.
NORMAN MACLEOD, D.D., A CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS HIS BIOGRAPHY. By ALEXANDER STRAHAN. Crown 8vo, sewed. Price One Shilling. *** Reprinted, with numerous Additions and many Illustrations from Sketches by Dr. Macleod, from the Contemporary Review.,CABINET PORTRAITS. BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES OF LIVING STATESMEN. By T. WEMYSS REID. i voi. crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. &ldquo;We have never met with a work I &ldquo;We can heartily commend his work.&rdquo; which we can more unreservedly praise. &mdash; Standard. The sketches are absolutely impartial.&rdquo;&mdash; &ldquo;The&lsquo;Sketches of Statesmen&rsquo;are drawn Athen&auml;um. | with a master hand .&rdquo;&mdash;Yorkshire Post.,THE ENGLISH CONSTITUTION. By WALTER BAGEHOT. A New Edition, revised and corrected, with an Introductory Dissertation on recent changes and events. Crown 8vo. 7 s. 6d. &ldquo;A pleasing and clever study on the 1 clearly what the efficient part of the Eng- department of higher politics.&rdquo;&mdash; Guar- lish Constitution really is .&rdquo;&mdash;Pall Mall dian. Gazette. &ldquo;No writer before him had set out so | &ldquo; Clear and practical.&rdquo;&mdash; Globe.,REPUBLICAN SUPERSTITIONS.,ILLUSTRATED BY THE POLITICAL HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES. INCLUDING A CORRESPONDENCE WITH M. LOUIS BLANC. By MONCURE D. CONWAY.,Crown &ldquo;Au moment o&ugrave; j&rsquo;&eacute;cris ceci, je re&ccedil;ois d&rsquo;un &eacute;crivain tr&egrave;s distingu&eacute; d&rsquo;Am&eacute;rique, M. Conway, une brochure qui est un frappant tableau des maux et des dangers qui r&eacute;sultent aux Etats Unis de l&rsquo;institu&not; tion pr&eacute;sidentielle.&rdquo;&mdash; M. Louis Blanc,0. 5 s. (&ldquo; De la Dissolution de l&rsquo;Assembl&eacute;e. Paris : Ernst Leroux). &ldquo;A very able exposure of the most plausible fallacies of Republicanism, by a writer of remarkable vigour and purity of style. &rdquo;&mdash; Standard.,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp;= 12, Paternoster Row, London.
ESSAYS BY WILLIAM GODWIN, AUTHOR OF &ldquo; POLITICAL JUSTICE,&rdquo;. ETC. Never before published, i voi. crown 8vo. 7 s. 6d. &ldquo;Interesting as the frankly expressed I contribution to the history of scepticism&rsquo;* thoughts of a remarkable man, and as a I &mdash;Extractfrom the Editor&#39;s Preface.,THE PELICAN PAPERS.,REMINISCENCES AND REMAINS OF A DWELLER IN THE WILDERNESS. By JAMES ASHCROFT NOBLE. Crown 8vo. 6s.,&ldquo; Written somewhat after the fashion of Mr. Helps&rsquo; &ldquo;Friends in Council.&rdquo;&mdash; Exa&not; miner. &ldquo; Will well repay perusal by all thought&not;,ful and intelligent readers .&rdquo;&mdash;Liverpool Leader. &lsquo; &lsquo; The &lsquo; Pelican Papers &rsquo; make a very readable volume.&rdquo;&mdash; Civilian.,SOLDIERING AND SCRIBBLING. By ARCHIBALD FORBES, Of the Daily &Lambda; r &amp;lt;nvs, Author of &ldquo; My Experience of the War between France and Germany.&rdquo; Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.,&ldquo; All who open it will be inclined to read through for the varied entertainment which it affords. &rdquo;&mdash;Daily News. &ldquo; There is a good deal of instruction to,outsiders touching military life in this volume .&rdquo;&mdash;Evening Standard. &ldquo; There is not a paper in the book which is not thoroughly readable and worth read&not; ing.&rdquo;&mdash; Scotsman.,BRIEFS AND PAPERS. BEING SKETCHES OF THE BAR AND THE TRESS. By TWO IDLE APPRENTICES. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. &ldquo; They are written with spirit and know- I &ldquo; This is one of the best books to while ledge, and give some curious glimpses into away an hour and cause a generous laugh what the majority will regard as strange that we have come across for a long time.&rdquo; and unknown territories .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily News. | &mdash;John Bull.,65, Cornhill; &iquest;s--- 12, Paternoster Row, London.
THE INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SERIES.,M ESSRS. HENRY S. KING &amp;amp; CO. have the pleasure to announce that under this title they are issuing a Series of Popular Treatises, embodying the results of the latest investigations in the various departments of Science at present most prominently before the world. Although these Works are not specially designed for the instruction of beginners, still, as they are intended to address the &AElig;ST Prospectuses of the Series,lion-scientific public , they will be, as far as possible, explanatory in character, and free from technicalities. The object of each author will be to bring his subject as near as he can to the general reader. The volumes will all be crown 8vo size, well printed on good paper, strongly and elegantly bound, and will sell in this country at a price not exceeding Five. Shillings. may be had of the Publishers.,Already published, THE FORMS OF WATER IN RAIN AND RIVERS, ICE AND GLACIERS. By J. TYNDALL, LL. D., F.R.S. With 26 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5s.,&ldquo; One of Professor Tyndall&rsquo;s best scien&not; tific treatises.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard. &ldquo;The most recent findings of science and experiment respecting the nature] and properties of water in every possible form, are discussed with remarkable brevity, clear&not; ness, and fullness of exposition.&rdquo;&mdash; Graphic. &ldquo; With the clearness and brilliancy of,language which have won for him his fame, he considers the subject of ice, snow, and glaciers.&rdquo;&mdash; Moi ning Post. &ldquo;Before starting for Switzerland next summer every one should study &lsquo;The forms of water.&rsquo; &rdquo;&mdash; Globe. &ldquo; Eloquent and instructive in an eminent degree.&rdquo;&mdash; British Quarterly.,PHYSICS AND POLITICS; Or, Thoughts on the Application of the Principles of &ldquo;Natural Selection&rdquo; and &ldquo; Inheritance &rdquo; to Political Society. By WALTER BAGEHOT. Crown 8vo. 4s. &ldquo; On the whole we can recommend the | and the writer speaks without fear.&rdquo;&mdash; Afa- hook as well deserving to be read by thought- j ţional Reformer. ful students of politics.&rdquo;&mdash; Saturday Review. I &ldquo; Contains many points of interest both &ldquo;Able and ingenious.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator. to the scientific man and to the mere poli- &ldquo; The book has been well thought out, I tician.&rdquo;&mdash; Birmingham Daily Gazette.,The Volumes nc MIND AND BODY: The Theories of their Relations. By Alexander Bain, LL.D., Professor of Logic at the University of Aberdeen. Illustrated. PRINCIPLES OF MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY. With their applica&not; tions to the Training and Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid Conditions. By W. B. Carpenter, LL.D., M.D., F.R.S., &amp;amp;c. Ulus-,preparing are&mdash; ON FOOD. By Dr. Edward Smith, F.R.S. Profusely Illustrated. THE FIRST PRINCIPLES OF THE EXACT SCIENCES Explained to the Non-Mathe- matical. By Professor W. Kingdom Clifford, M.A. ANIMAL MECHANICS; or, Walking, Swimming, and Flying. By Dr. J. Bell Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S. 125 Illustrations.,65, Cornhill; &ocirc;&deg; 12, Paternoster Port.&rsquo;, London.
STREAMS FROM HIDDEN SOURCES. By B. MONTGOMERIE RANKING. Crown 8vo. 6s.,THE SECRET OF LONG LIFE.,DEDICATED BY SPECIAL PERMISSION TO LORD ST. LEONARDS. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo. 5&iacute;.,&ldquo; A charming little volume, written with singular felicity of style and illustration.&rdquo; &ldquo;A very pleasant little book, which is always, whether it deal in paradox or earnest, cheerful, genial, scholarly.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator. &ldquo; The bold and striking character of the,whole conception is entitled to the warmest admiration.&rdquo;&mdash; Pall Mall Gazette. &ldquo;We should recommend our readers to get this book . . . because they will be amused by the jovial miscellaneous and cultured gossip with which he strews his pages.&rdquo;&mdash; British Quarterly Review.,CHANGE OF AIR AND SCENE. A physician&rsquo;s hints about doctors, patients, hygi&egrave;ne, AND SOCIETY ;,WITH NOTES OF EXCURSIONS FOR HEALTH IN THE PYRENEES, AND AMONGST THE WATERING-PLACES OF FRANCE (INLAND AND SEAWARD), SWITZERLAND, CORSICA, AND THE MEDITERRANEAN. By Dr. ALPHONSE DONN&Eacute;.,Large post &Iacute; &ldquo;A very readable and serviceable book. . . . Ţhe real value of it is to be found in the accurate and minute information given with regard to a large number of places which have gained a reputation on the continent for their mineral waters.&rdquo;&mdash; Pall Mall Gazette. &ldquo; Not only a pleasant book of travel but also a book of considerable value.&rdquo;&mdash; Ilor/i- &ldquo; A popular account of some of the most charming health resorts of the Continent ;,). Price 9 s. with suggestive hints about keeping well and getting well, which are characterised by a good deal of robust common sense.&rdquo;&mdash; British Quarterly. &ldquo; A singularly pleasant and chatty as well as instructive book about health.&rdquo;&mdash; Guardian. &ldquo;A useful and pleasantly-written book, containing many valuable hints on the gene&not; ral management of health from a shrewd and experienced medical man.&rdquo;&mdash; Graphic.,MISS YOUMANS&rsquo; FIRST BOOK OF BOTANY. DESIGNED TO CULTIVATE THE OBSERVING POWERS OF CHILDREN. From the Author&rsquo;s latest Stereotyped Edition. New and Enlarged Edition, with 300 Engravings. Crown 8vo. 54&middot;. It is but rarely that a school-book appears I the most recent scientific views, and has which is at once so novel in plan, so sue- been practically tested by careful trial with cessful in execution, and so suited to the juvenile classes, and it has been everywhere general want, as to command universal and welcomed as a timely and invaluable con- unqualified approbation, but such has been tribution to the improvement of primary the case with Miss Youmans* First Book education, of Botany. Her work is an outgrowth of I,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp; 12, Paternoster Pow, London.
AN ESSAY ON THE CULTURE OF THE OBSERVING POWERS OF CHILDREN, ESPECIALLY IN CONNECTION WITH THE STUDY OF BOTANY. By ELIZA A. YOUMANS,,Edited, with Notes and a Supplement By JOSEPH PAYNE, F.C.P., Author of &ldquo; Lectures on the Science and Art of Education,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c.,Crown 8vc &quot; The little book, now under notice, is expressly designed to make the earliest instruction of children a mental discipline. Miss Youmans presents in her work the ripe results of educational experience re&not; duced to a system, wisely conceiving that an education&mdash;even the most elementary&mdash; should be regarded as a discipline of the mental powers, and that the facts of ex&not; ternal nature supply the most suitable materials for this discipline in the case of,I. 2&Iacute;. 6d. children. She has applied that principle to the study of botany. This study, ac&not; cording to her just notions on the subject, is to be fundamentally based on the exer&not; cise of the pupil&rsquo;s own powers of observa&not; tion. He is to see and examine the pro&not; perties of plants and flowers at first hand, not merely to be informed of what others have seen and examined .&rdquo;&mdash;Pall Mall Gazette.,THE HISTORY OF THE NATURAL&middot; CREATION: BEING &Lambda; SERIES OF POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES ON THE GENERAL THEORY OF PROGRESSION OF SPECIES ; WITH A DISSERTATION ON THE THEORIES OF DARWIN, GOETHE, AND LAMARCK : MORE ESPECIALLY APPLYING THEM TO THE ORIGIN OF MAN, AND TO OTHER FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS OF NATURAL SCIENCE CONNECTED THEREWITH. By Professor ERNST H&AElig;CKEL, of the University of Jena. 8vo. With Woodcuts and Plates. [. Preparing .,AN ARABIC AND ENGLISH DICTIONARY OF THE KORAN. By Major J. PENRICE, B.A. 4 to. [Just ready.,MODERN GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE. By T. G. JACKSON. Crown 8vo. [/&laquo; the press.,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp;= 12, Paternoster Row, London.
A LEGAL HANDBOOK FOR ARCHITECTS. By EDWARD JENKINS and JOHN RAYMOND. Crown 8vo. Price 5&iacute;. [ Nearly ready CONTEMPORARY ENGLISH PSYCHOLOGY. From the French of Professor TH. RIBOT. AN ANALYSIS OF THE VIEWS AND OPINIONS OF THE FOLLOWING METAPHYSICIANS, AS EXPRESSED IN THEIR WRITINGS. JAMES MILL. I JOHN STUART MILL. I HERBERT SPENCER. &#39; A &middot; BAIN. I GEORGE H. LEWES. | SAMUEL BAILEY. &amp;gt; Large post 8vo. [Preparing.,PHYSIOLOGY FOR PRACTICAL BY VARIOUS EMINENT WRITERS. Edited by JAMES HINTON. With 50 Illustrations.,USE.,[Preparing.,HEALTH AND DISEASE,THE,AS INFLUENCED BY DAILY, SEASONAL, AND OTHER CYCLICAL CHANGES IN THE HUMAN SYSTEM. By Dr. EDWARD SMITH, F.R.S. A New Edition, js. 6d.,PRACTICAL DIETARY FOR FAMILIES, SCHOOLS, &amp;amp; THE LABOURING CLASSES. By Dr. EDWARD SMITH, F.R.S. A New Edition. Price 3s. 6d.,CONSUMPTION IN ITS EARLY AND REMEDIABLE STAGES. By Dr. EDWARD SMITH, F.R.S. A New Edition. 7 6d.,65, Cernitili ; &ocirc;&deg; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
A TREATISE ON RELAPSING FEVER. By R. T. LYONS, Assistant-Surgeon, Bengal Army. Small post 8vo. ys. 6d. _ &ldquo; A practical work thoroughly supported in its views by a series of remarkable cases. &rdquo;&mdash;6&#39; tandard. IN QUEST OF COOLIES. A South Sea Sketch. By JAMES L. A. HOPE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with 15 Illustrations from Sketches by the Author. Price 6s. &ldquo;Mr. Hope&rsquo;s description of the natives I &ldquo;Lively and clever sketches.&rdquo;&mdash; Athe&not; is graphic and amusing, and the book is nceuiu. altogether well worthy of perusal.&rdquo;&mdash; &ldquo; This agreeably written and amusingly Standard. | illustrated volume.&rdquo;&mdash; Public Opinion.,THE NILE WITHOUT A DRAGOMAN. By FREDERIC EDEN.,Second Edition. In one voi. &ldquo; Should any of our readers care to imitate Mr. Eden&rsquo;s example, and wish to see things with their own eyes, and shift for themselves, next winter in Upper Egypt, they will find this book a very agreeable guide.&rdquo;&mdash; Times. &ldquo;We have in these pages the most minute description of life as it appeared on the banks of the Nile ; all that could be,Crown Svo, cloth. 7 s. 6d. seen or was worth seeing in nature or in art is here pleasantly and graphically set down. . . . It is a book to read during an autumn holiday.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator. &ldquo;Gives, within moderate compass, a suggestive description of the charms, cu&not; riosities, dangers, and discomforts of the Nile voyage.&rdquo;&mdash; Saturday Review.,ROUND THE WORLD IN 1870.,A VOI.UME OF TRAVELS, WITH MAPS. By A. D. CARLISLE, B.A., Trin. Coll., Camb. Demy 8vo. iőr.,&ldquo;Makes one understand how going round the world is to be done in the quick&not; est and pleasantest manner, and how the brightest and most cheerful of travellers did it with eyes wide open and keen at&not; tention all on the alert, with ready sympa&not; thies, with the happiest facility of hitting,upon the most interesting features of nature and the most interesting characteristics of man, and all for its own sake.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator. &ldquo;We can only commend, which we do very heartily, an eminently sensible and readable book.&rdquo;&mdash; British Quarterly Re-,65, Cornhill ; &ocirc;&deg; 12, Paternoster Koie, London.
iŤľtľttimr Mo r hs.,THE FRONTAL ATTACK OF INFANTRY. By Capt. LAYMANN, Instructor of Tactics at the Military Col&not; lege, Neisse. Translated by Colonel EDWARD NEWDIGATE. Crown 8vo, limp cloth. Price 2 s. 6d. &ldquo; This work has met with special attention in our army .&rdquo;&mdash;Militariu Wochenblatt.,THE FIRST BAVARIAN ARMY CORPS IN the WAR of 1870-71, under VON DER TANN. Compiled from the Official Records by Capt. HUGO HELVIG. Translated by Capt. G. Salis Schwabe. Demy 8vo. With 5 large Maps.,History of the Organisation , Equipment ., and War Services of THE R&Eacute;GIMENT OF BENGAL&middot; ARTILLERY. Compiled from Published Official and other Records, and various private sources, by Major FRANCIS W. STUBBS, Royal (late Bengal) Artillery. Vol. I. will contain War Services. The Second Volume will be published separately, and will contain the History of the Organisation and Equipment of the Regiment. In 2 vols. 8vo. With Maps and Plans. Preparing.,THE ABOLITION OF PURCHASE AND THE ARMY REGULATION BILL of 1871. By Lieut.-Col. the Hon. A. ANSON, V.C., M.P. Crown 8vo. Price One Shilling.,THE STORY OF THE SUPERSESSIONS. By Lieut.-Col..the Hon. A. ANSON, V.C., M.P. Cm. 8vo. Price 6d.,ARMY RESERVES AND MILITIA REFORMS. By Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. C. ANSON. Crown 8vo. Sewed. Price u*.,ELEMENTARY MILITARY GEOGRAPHY, RECONNOITRING, AND SKETCHING. Compiled for Non- Commissioned Officers and Soldiers of all Arms. By Lieut. C. E. H. VINCENT, Royal Welsh Fusileers. Small crown 8vo.,65, Cornhill; 6&deg; 12, Paternoster Row , London.
Military Works&mdash; continued. VICTORIES AND DEFEATS. An Attempt to explain the Causes which have led to them. An Officer&rsquo;s Manual. By Col. R. P. ANDERSON. Demy 8vo. \Inpreparation.,STUDIES IN THE NEW INFANTRY TACTICS. By Major W. VON SCHEREFF. Translated from the German by Col. LUMLEY GRAHAM. [Shortly.,THE OPERATIONS OF THE FIRST ARMY TO the CAPITULATION OF METZ. By Major VON SCHELL, with Maps, including one of Metz and of the country around. Trans&not; lated by Capt. E. O. HOLLIST. In demy 8vo. \In preparation.,*** The most important events de- scribed in this work are the battles of Spichern, those before Metz on the 14th and 18th August, and (on this point no&not; thing authentic has yet been published) the history of the investment of Metz (battle of Noisseville). This work, however, possesses a greater importance than that derived from these points, because it represents for the first,from the official documents the gene&not; ralship of Von Steinmetz, Hitherto we have had no exact reports on the deeds and motives of this celebrated general. This work has the special object of un&not; folding carefully the relations in which the commander of the First Army acted, the plan of operations which he drew up, and the manner in which he carried it out.,THE OPERATIONS OF THE FIRST ARMY IN NORTHERN FRANCE AGAINST FAIDHERBE. By Colonel Count HERMANN VON WARTENSLEBEN, Chief of the Staff of the First Army. Translated by Colonel C. H. VON WRIGHT. In demy 8vo. Uniform with the above. [In preparation. THE OPERATIONS OF THE FIRST ARMY, under Gen. VON GOEBEN. Translated by Col. C. H. VON WRIGHT. With Maps. Demy 8vo.,TACTICAL DEDUCTIONS FROM THE WAR,OF 1870-1. By Captain A. VON BOGUSŁAWSKI. Trans&not; lated by Colonel LUMLEY GRAHAM, late 18th (Royal Irish) Regiment. Demy 8vo. Uniform with the above. Price 7 s.,&ldquo;Major Boguslawski&rsquo;s tactical deduc&not; tions from the war are, that infantry still preserve their superiority over cavalry, that open order must henceforth be the main principles of all drill, and that the chassepot is the best of all small arms for precision. . . . We must, without delay, impress brain and forethought into the,British Service ; and we cannot commence the good work too soon, or better, than by placing the two books (&#39;The Operations of the German Armies&rsquo; and &lsquo;Tactical Deduc&not; tions&rsquo;) we have here criticised, in every military library, and introducing them as class-books in every tactical school.&rdquo;&mdash; United Service Gazette.,65, Cor nhill ; O &#39; 5 12, Paternoster Row, London.
Military Works&mdash; continued.,THE OPERATIONS OF THE GERMAN ARMIES IN FRANCE, FROM SEDAN TO THE END OF THE WAR OF 1870-1. With Large Official Map. From the Journals of the Head-quarters Staff, by Major WM. BLUME. Translated by Е. M. JONES, Major 20th Foot, late Professor of,Military History, Sandhurst. &ldquo; The book is of absolute necessity to the military student. . . . The work is one of high merit and . . . has the advantage of being rendered into fluent English, and is accompanied by an excellent military map .&rdquo;&mdash;United Service Gazette. &ldquo;The work of translation has been well done ; the expressive German idioms have been rendered into clear, nervous English without losing any of their original force ; and in notes, prefaces, and introductions, much additional information has been given .&rdquo;&mdash;A theneeum. &ldquo; The work of Major von Blume in its,Demy 8vo. Price 9.Г. I English dress forms the most valuable addition to our stock of works upon the 1 war that our press has put forth. Major &iexcl; Blume writes with a clear conciseness much wanting in many of his country&rsquo;s I historians, and Major Jones has done j himself and his original alike justice by his vigorous yet correct translation of the excellent volume on which he has laboured. Our space forbids our doing more than commending it earnestly as the most au&not; thentic and instructive narrative of the second section of the war that has yet appeared .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review.,THE OPERATIONS OF THE SOUTH ARMY IN JANUARY AND FEBRUARY, 1871. Compiled from the Official War Documents of the Head-quarters of the Southern Army. By Count HERMANN VON WARTEN SLEBEN, Colonel in the Prussian General Staff. Translated by Colonel C. H. VON WRIGHT. Demy 8vo, with Maps. Uniform with the above. Price dr.,HASTY INTRENCHMENTS. By Colonel A. BRI ALM ONT. Translated by Lieutenant CHARLES A. EMPSON, R.A. Demy 8 vo. Nine Plates. Price 6 s. &ldquo; A valuable contribution to military j to how a position can best be strengthened literature.&rdquo;&mdash; Athen&auml;um. . I by means ... of such extemporised in- &ldquo; In seven short chapters it gives plain 1 trenchments and batteries as can be thrown directions for performing shelter-trenches, j up by infantry in the space of four or five with the best method of carrying the neces- hours . . . deserves to become a standard sary tools, and it offers practical illustrations military work.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard. of the use of hasty intrenchments on the field &ldquo;A clever treatise, short, practical and of battle.&rdquo; &mdash; United Service Magazine. clear.&rdquo;&mdash; Investor&rsquo;s Guardian. &ldquo; It supplies that which our own text- &ldquo; Clearly and critically written.&rdquo;&mdash; IVel- books give but imperfectly, viz., hints as 1 liugton Gazette.,THE ARMY OF THE NORTH-GERMAN CONFEDERATION. A Brief Description of its Organisation, of the different Branches of the Service and their &lsquo; R&ocirc;le &rsquo; in War, of its Mode of Fighting, &amp;amp;c. By a PRUSSIAN GENERAL. Translated from the German by Col. EDWARD NEWDIGATE. Demy 8vo. 5.Г. *** The authorship of this book was erroneously ascribed to the renowned General von Moltke, but there can be little doubt that it was written under his immediate inspiration.,65, Cornhill; &ocirc;- 12, Paternoster Row, London.
Military Works&mdash; continued. CAVALRY FIELD DUTY. By Major-General VON MIRUS. Translated by Captain FRANK S. RUSSELL, 14th (King&rsquo;s) Hussars. Crown 8vo, limp cloth. 5г.,*** This is the text-book of instruction in the German cavalry, and comprises all the details connected with the military duties of cavalry soldiers on service. The translation is made from a new edition, which contains the modifications intro&not;,duced consequent on the experiences of the late war. The great interest that stu&not; dents feel in all the German military methods, will, it is believed, render this book especially acceptable at the present,STUDIES IN LEADING TROOPS. By Colonel VON VERDY DU VERNOIS. An authorised and accurate Translation by Lieutenant H. J. T. HILD YARD, 71st Foot. Parts I. and II. Demy 8vo. Price 7 s. \Now ready.,*** General Beauchamp Walker says of this work :&mdash;&ldquo;I recommend the first two numbers of Colonel von Verd y&rsquo; s &lsquo; Studies &rsquo; to the attentive perusal of my brother officers. They supply a want which I have often felt during my service in this country, namely, a minuter tactical detail of the minor operations of the war than any but the most observant and for&not;,tunately placed staff-officer is in a position to give. I have read and re-read them very carefully, I hope with profit, certainly with great interest, and believe that prac&not; tice, in the sense of these &lsquo; Studies,&rsquo; would be a valuable preparation for manoeuvres on a more extended scale.&rdquo;&mdash;Berlin, June, 1872.,THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR, 1870-71. First Part .-&mdash;history of the war to the downfall of the empire. First Section the events in july. Autho&not; rised Translation from the German Official Account at the Topogra&not; phical and Statistical Department of the War Office, by Captain F. C. H. CLARKE, R.A. First Section, with Map. Demy 8vo. 3^.,DISCIPLINE AND DRILL. Four Lectures delivered to the London Scottish Rifle Volunteers. By Captain S. FLOOD,PAGE. A New and Cheaper &ldquo; One of the best-known and coolest- headed of the metropolitan regiments, whose adjutant moreover has lately pub&not; lished an admirable collection of lectures addressed by him to the men of his corps.&rdquo; &mdash;Times. &ldquo; The very useful and interesting work. . . . Every Volunteer, officer or pri-,Edition. Price is, vate, will he the better for perusing and digesting the plain-spoken truths which Captain Page so firmly, and yet so mo&not; destly, puts before them ; and we trust that the little book in which they are con&not; tained will find its way into all parts of Great Britain .&rdquo;&mdash;Volunteer Service Ga-,THE SUBSTANTIVE SENIORITY ARMY LIST. Majors and Captains. By Captain F. В. P. WHITE, ist W. I. Regiment. 8vo, sewed. 2 s. 6 d.,65, Cornhill; 6&deg; 12, Paternoster Row, London. в
ou Jf&iacute;ťtriiut Subj ids.,THE EUROPEAN IN INDIA. A HAND-BOOK OF PRACTICAL INFORMATION FOR THOSE PROCEEDING TO, OR RESIDING IN, THE EAST INDIES,,RELATING TO OUTFITS, ROUTES, TIME FOR DEPARTURE, INDIAN CLIMATE, ETC. By EDMUND C. P. HULL. WITH A MEDICAL GUIDE FOR ANGLO-INDIANS.,BEING A COMPENDIUM OF ADVICE TO EUROPEANS IN INDIA, RELATING TO THE PRESERVATION AND REGULATION OF HEALTH. By R. S. MAIK, M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Late Deputy Coroner of Madras. In i voi. Post 8 vo. 6s.,&lsquo;&#39;Full of all sorts of useful information to the English settler or traveller in India.&rdquo; &mdash; Standard. &ldquo; One of the most valuable books ever published in India&mdash;valuable for its sound information, its careful array of pertinent facts, and its sterling common sense. It is,a publisher&rsquo;s as well as an author&rsquo;s &lsquo; hit,&rsquo; for it supplies a want which few persons may have discovered, but which everybody will at once recognise when once the con&not; tents of the book have been mastered. The medical part of the work is invalu&not; able .&rdquo;&mdash;Calcutta Guardian.,EASTERN EXPERIENCES.,By L. BOWRING, C.S.I., Lord Canning&rsquo;s Private Secretary, and for many years the Chief Commissioner oi Mysore and Coorg. In i voi. Demy 8 vo. 16 s. Illustrated with Maps and Diagrams.,&#39;&lsquo;An admirable and exhaustive geo&not; graphical, political, and industrial survey.&rdquo; &mdash;A thenceum. &ldquo;The usefulness of this compact and methodical summary of the most authentic information relating to countries whose welfare is intimately connected with our own, should obtain for Mr. Lewin Bow&not;,ring&rsquo;s work a good place among treatises of its kind .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily News. &ldquo; Interesting even to the general reader, but more especially so to those who may have a special concern in that portion of our Indian Empire.&rdquo;&mdash; Post. &ldquo;An elaborately got up and carefully compiled work. &rdquo;&mdash;Home News.,A MEMOIR OF THE INDIAN SURVEYS. By CLEMENT R. MARKHAM. Printed by order of Her Majesty&rsquo;s Secretary of State for India in Council. Imperial 8 vo. ioj. 6d.,65 , Cornhill ; 12 , Paternoster Row, London.
Books on Indian Subjects &mdash;continued. WESTERN INDIA BEFORE AND DURING THE MUTINIES.,PICTURES DRAWN EROM LIFE.,By Major-Gen. Sir GEORGE LE GRAND JACOB, K.C.S.I., C.B. In i voi. Crown 8vo. ns. 6d.,&ldquo;The most important contribution to the history of Western India during the Mutinies which has yet, in a popular form, been made public.&rdquo;&mdash; Atheiueum. &ldquo;The legacy of a wise veteran, intent on the benefit of his countrymen rather,than on the acquisition of fame.&rdquo;&mdash; London and China Express. &ldquo; Few men more competent than him&not; self to speak authoritatively concerning Indian affairs.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard.,EXCHANGE TABLES OF STERLING AND INDIAN RUPEE CURRENCY, UPON A NEW AND EXTENDED SYSTEM, EMBRACING VALUES FROM ONE FARTHING TO ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND FOUNDS, AND AT RATES PROGRESSING, IN SIXTEENTHS OF A PENNY, FROM IS. 9 d. TO 2 S. 3 d. PER RUPEE. By DONALD FRASER, Accountant to the British Indian Steam Navigation Co., Limited. Royal 8vo. ios. 6d.,A CATALOGUE OF MAPS OF THE BRITISH POSSESSIONS IN INDIA AND OTHER PARTS OF ASIA. Published by order of Her Majesty&rsquo;s Secretary of State for India in Council. Royal 8vo, sewed, is. A continuation of the above, sewed, price 6 d., is now ready.,ЕЗГ Messrs. Henry S. King &aring;r Co. are the authorised agents by the Government for the sale of the whole of the Maps enumerated in this Catalogue.,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp; 12 y Paternoster Рога, London.,в 2
Jubmile ^lo&ucirc;lis.,BRAVE MEN&rsquo;S FOOTSTEPS. A Book of Example and Anecdote for Young People. By the Editor of &ldquo; Men who have Risen.&rdquo; With Four Illustrations. By C. Doyle. 3.&Gamma;. 6d.,&ldquo; The little volume is precisely of the stamp to win the favour of those who, in choosing a gift for a boy, would consult his moral development as well as his temporary pleasure .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily Telegraph.,&ldquo;A readable and instructive volume.&rdquo;&mdash; Examiner. &ldquo; No more welcome book for the school&not; boy could be imagined .&rdquo;&mdash;Birmingham Daily Gazette.,THE LITTLE WONDER-HORN. By JEAN INGELOW. A Second Series of &ldquo;Stories told to a Child.&rdquo; Fifteen Illustrations. Cloth, gilt. 3.&Gamma;. 6d. &ldquo; Full of fresh and vigorous fancy : it is I &ldquo; We like all the contents of the &lsquo; Little worthy of the author of some of the best of Wonder-Horn &rsquo; very much.&rdquo;&mdash; Athetuenm. our modern verse.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard. &ldquo; We recommend it with confidence.&rdquo;&mdash; J Pall-Mall Gazette.,STORIES IN PRECIOUS STONES. By HELEN ZIMMERN. With Six Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5.Г. &ldquo;A series of pretty tales which are half I &ldquo;Certainly the book is well worth a fantastic, half natural, and pleasantly perusal, and will not be soon laid down quaint, as befits stories intended for the when once taken up.&rdquo; &mdash; Daily Bristol young .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily Telegraph. | Times.,GUTTA-PERCHA WILLIE, THE WORKING GENIUS. By GEORGE MACDONALD. With Illustrations. By Arthur Hughes. Crown 8vo. 3г. 6a&#39;.,THE TRAVELLING MENAGERIE. By CHARLES CAMDEN, Author of &ldquo;Hoity Toity.&rdquo; Illustrated by J. Mahoney. Crown 8vo. 3г. 6a&#39;.,PLUCKY FELLOWS. A Book for Boys. By STEPHEN J. MACKENNA. With Six Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price &iexcl;s. 6c1.,THE DESERTED SHIP. A Real Story of the Atlantic. By CUPPLES HOWE, Master Mariner. Illustrated by Townley Green. Crown 8vo. 3г. 6a&#39;.,65, Cornhill; dť 12, Paternoster Row, London.
Juvenile Books&mdash; -continued, GOOD WORDS FOR THE YOUNG. The Volume for 1872, gilt cloth and gilt edges, 7 s. 6 d. Containing numerous Contributions by popular authors, and about One Hundred and Fifty Illustrations by the best artists.,JEAN JAROUSSEAU, THE PASTOR OF THE DESERT. Translated from the French of EUGENE PELLET AN. By Colonel E. P. DE L&rsquo;HOSTE. In fcap. 8vo, with an Engraved Frontispiece. Price 5 s.,&ldquo;There is a poetical simplicity and pic&not; turesqueness ; the noblest heroism ; unpre&not; tentious religion ; pure love, and the &bull;spectacle of a household brought up in the fear of the Lord. . . . The whole &bull;story has an air of quaint antiquity similar to that which invests with a charm more &bull;easily felt than described the site of,some splendid ruin .&rdquo;&mdash;Illustrated London News. &ldquo;This charming specimen of Eug&egrave;ne Pelletan&rsquo;s tender grace, humour, and high- toned morality .&rdquo;&mdash;Notes and Queries. &ldquo; A touching record of the struggles in the cause of religious liberty of a real man. &rdquo;&mdash; Graphic.,HOITY TOITY, THE GOOD LITTLE FELLOW. Ey CHARLES CAMDEN. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 3г. Ы.,LILLIPUT REVELS. By the Author of &ldquo; LILLIPUT LEV&Eacute;E.&rdquo; With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 31. 6d. [Preparing.,SEEKING HIS FORTUNE, AND OTHER STORIES. Crown Svo. Illustrated. [ Preparing .,THE &quot;ELSIE&quot; SERIES.,ELSIE DINSMORE. By MARTHA FARQUHAR- SON. Crown 8vo. Illustrated. ELSIE&rsquo;S GIRLHOOD. A Sequel to &ldquo; Elsie Dinsmore.&rdquo; By the same Author. Crown 8vo. Illustrated. ELSIE&rsquo;S HOLIDAYS AT ROSELANDS. By the same Author. Crown 8vo. Illustrated.,65 , Cornhill; 12 , Paternoster &Rho;ό&tau;&alpha;, London.
IJ&oslash;cirg. IMITATIONS FROM THE GERMAN OF SPITTA AND TERSTEGEN. By Lady DURAND. Crown 8 vo. [/&laquo; the press.,EASTERN LEGENDS AND STORIES IN ENGLISH VERSE. By Lieutenant NORTON POWLETT, Royal Artillery. Crown 8vo. 5 r.,EDITH; or, LOVE AND LIFE IN CHESHIRE. By T. ASHE, Author of the &ldquo;Sorrows of Hypsipyle,&rdquo; etc. Sewed. Price 6d. &rdquo; A really fine poem, full of tender, I &ldquo; Pregnant from beginning to end with subtle touches of feeling .&rdquo;&mdash;MancJiester the results of careful observation and ima- News. I ginative power .&rdquo;&mdash;Chester Chronicle.,THE GALLERY OF PIGEONS, AND OTHER POEMS. By THEOPHILUS MARZIALS. Crown 8vo. _ [In the press. A NEW VOLUME OF POEMS. By the Rev. C. TENNYSON TURNER. Crown 8vo. [In the press.,ENGLISH SONNETS. Collected and Arranged by JOHN DENNIS. Small crown 8vo. [In the press.,GOETHE&rsquo;S FAUST. A New Translation in Rhyme. By the Rev. C. KEGAN PAUL. Crown 8vo. 6s.,WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT&rsquo;S POEMS. Handsomely bound, with Illustrations. A Cheaper Edition. A Pocket Edition. [Preparing.,65 , Cornhill; 12 , Paternoster Row, London.
Poetry&mdash; continued. CALDERON&rsquo;S POEMS. The Purgatory of St. Patrick&mdash;The Wonderful Magician&mdash;Life is a Dream. Translated from the Spanish. By DENIS FLORENCE MACCARTHY.,SONGS FOR SAILORS. By Dr. W. C. BENNETT. Dedicated by Special Request to H.R. H. the Duke of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo. 2 s - 6d. With Steel Portrait and Illustrations. An Edition in Illustrated paper Covers. Price ij*.,DR. V/. C. BENNETT&rsquo;S POEMS will be shortly Re-issued, with additions to each part, in Five Parts, at is. each.,WALLED IN, AND OTHER POEMS. By the Rev. HENRY J. BULKELY. Crown 8vo. 5л,THE POETICAL AND PROSE WORKS OF ROBERT BUCHANAN. Preparing for publication, a Collected Edition in 5 vols. Contents of Vol. I.&mdash; daughters of eve ; undertones and antiques ; COUNTRY AND PASTORAL POEMS. [&fnof;&laquo; the Press.,SONGS OF LIFE AND DEATH. By JOHN PAYNE, Author of &ldquo;Intaglios,&rdquo; &ldquo;Sonnets,&rdquo; &ldquo;The Masque of Shadows,&rdquo; etc. Crown 8vo. 5-r. \Just out.,SONGS OF TWO WORLDS. By a NEW WRITER. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 5.$&middot;.,&ldquo;The &lsquo;New Writer&rsquo; is certainly no tyro. No one after reading the first two poems, almost perfect in rhythm and all the graceful reserve of true lyrical strength, can doubt that this book is the result of lengthened thought and assiduous training in poetical form. . . . These poems will assuredly take high rank among the class to which they belong .&rdquo;&mdash;British Quarterly Review, April ist. &ldquo; If these poems are the mere preludes of a mind growing in power and in inclina&not; tion for verse, we have in them the promise of a fine poet. . . . The verse describ&not;,ing Socrates has the highest hote of critical poetry.&rdquo;&mdash; Spectator, February &tau;&eta;ίΐ&iota;. &lsquo;&lsquo;No extracts could do justice to the exquisite tones, the felicitous phrasing and delicately wrought harmonies of some of these poems.&rdquo;&mdash; Nonconformist, March 27 th. &ldquo;Are we in this book making the ac&not; quaintance of a fine and original poet, or of a most artistic imitator? And our deliberate opinion is that the former hy&not; pothesis is the right one. It has a purity and delicacy of feeling like morning air.&rdquo; &mdash; Graphic , March 16 th.,65, Cornhill; &ocirc;&deg; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
P oetry&mdash;, continued.,THE INN OF STRANGE MEETINGS, AND OTHER POEMS. By MORTIMER COLLINS. Crown 8vo. Sr.,&ldquo;Abounding in quiet humour, in bright fancy, in sweetness and melody of expres&not; sion, and, at times, in the tenderest touches of pathos.&rdquo;&mdash; Graphic. &lsquo; Mr. Collins has an undercurrent of,chivalry and romance beneath the trifling vein of good humoured banter which is the special characteristic of his verse. . . . The &lsquo; Inn of Strange Meetings&rsquo; is a sprightly piece.&rdquo;&mdash;A theneeum.,EROS AGONISTES. By E. B. D. Crown 8vo. 3г. 6^.,&ldquo;The author of these verses has written a very touching story of the human heart in the story he tells with such pathos and power, of an affection cherished so long and so secretly. . . . It is not the,least merit of these pages that they ;_ everywhere illumined with moral and re&not; ligious sentiment suggested, not paraded, of the brightest, purest character.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard.,THE LEGENDS OF ST. PATRICK &amp;amp; OTHER,POEMS. By AUBREY DE &ldquo; Mr. De Vere&rsquo;s versification in his earlier poems is characterised by great sweetness and simplicity. He is master of his instrument, and rarely offends the ear with false notes. Poems such as these scarcely admit of quotation, for their charm is not, and ought not to be, found in isolated passages ; but we can promise the patient and thoughtful reader much pleasure in the perusal of this volume.&rdquo; &mdash; Pall-Mall Gazette. &ldquo;We have marked, in almost every,VERE. Crown 8vo. 5.$&middot;. page, excellent touches from which we know not how to select. We have but space to commend the varied structure of his verse, the carefulness of his grammar, and his excellent English. All who be&not; lieve that poetry should raise and not debase the social ideal, all who think that wit should exalt our standard of thought and manners, must welcome this contri&not; bution at once to our knowledge of the past and to the science of noble life.&rdquo;&mdash; Saturday Review.,ASPROMONTE, AND OTHER POEMS. Second Edition, cloth. 4л 6d.,&ldquo;The volume is anonymous, but there is no reason for the author to be ashamed of it. The &lsquo; Poems of Italy &rsquo; are evidently inspired by genuine enthusiasm in the cause espoused ; and one of them, * The,Execution of Felice Orsini,&rsquo; has much poetic merit, the event celebrated being told with dramatic force.&rdquo;&mdash; Athetueum. &ldquo;The verse is fluent and free.&rdquo;&mdash; Spec&not; tator.,THE DREAM AND THE DEED, AND OTHER POEMS. By PATRICK SCOTT, Author of &ldquo;Footpaths be&not; tween Two Worlds,&rdquo; etc. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 5 s. &ldquo;A bitter and able satire on the vice I &ldquo; Shows real poetic power coupled with and follies of the day, literary, social, and evidences of satirical energy .&rdquo;&mdash;Edinbu reft political.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard. | Daily Review.,65 , Cornhill; 12 . Patcr?ioster Row, London.
&iquest;(fiction.,CHESTERLEIGH. By ANSLEY CONYERS. 3 vols. Crown 8 vo. [f&aacute;st oul .,SQUIRE SILCHESTER&rsquo;S WHIM. By MOR&not; TIMER COLLINS, Author of &ldquo;Marquis and Merchant,&rdquo; &ldquo;The Princess Clarice,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Crown 8vo. 3 vols.,SEETA. By Colonel MEADOWS TAYLOR, Author of &ldquo;Tara,&rdquo; &ldquo; Ralph Darnell,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Crown 8vo. 3 vols. &ldquo; The story is well told, native life is I English, mingled with fear lest the latter admirably described, and the petty intrigues should eventually prove the victors, are of native rulers, and their hatred of the | cleverly depicted.&rdquo;&mdash; Atherueum.,A New and Cheaper Edition , Illustrated , of COL. MEADOWS TAYLOR&rsquo;S INDIAN TALES is preparing for publication.,JOHANNES OLAF. By E. DE WILLE. Translated bv F. E. BUNNETT. Crown 8 vo. 4 vols.,The author of this story enjoys a high reputation in Germany ; and both English and German critics have spoken in terms of the warmest praise of this and her pre&not; vious stories. She has been called &ldquo; The &lsquo;George Eliot&#39; of Germany.&rdquo; &ldquo;The book gives evidence of consider-,OFF THE SKELLIGS. First Romance.) Crown 8vo. &ldquo; Clever and sparkling. . . . The de&not; scriptive passages are bright with colour.&rdquo; &mdash; Standard. &ldquo; We read each succeeding volume with increasing interest, going almost to the |,able capacity in every branch of a novelist&rsquo;s faculty. The art of description is fully exhibited ; perception of character and capacity for delineating it are obvious ; while there is great breadth and compre&not; hensiveness in the plan of the story.&rdquo;&mdash; &mdash;Morning Post.,By JEAN INGELOW. (Her In 4 vols. point of wishing there was a fifth.&rdquo;&mdash; A tken&oelig;um. &ldquo; The novel as a whole is a remarkable one, because it is uncompromisingly true to life .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily Nevus.,HONOR BLAKE: The Story of a Plain Woman. By Mrs. KEATINGE, Author of &ldquo; English Homes in India,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. &ldquo; One of the best novels we have met I which must do good to all, young and old, with for some time .&rdquo;&mdash;Morning Post. who read it .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily News. &ldquo; The story of &lsquo; Honor Blake &rsquo; is a story |,65, Cornhill; 12, Paternoster Row, Lotidon.
Fiction&mdash; continued, THE DOCTOR&rsquo;S DILEMMA. By HESBA STRET - &Tau;&Omicron;&Nu;, Author of &ldquo;Little Meg,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c., &amp;amp;c. Crown 8vo. 3 vols.,THE PRINCESS CLARICE. A Story of 1871. &tau;&amp;gt; &quot; MORTIMER COLLINS. 2 vols. Crown 8vo.,&ldquo;Mr. Collins has produced a readable book, amusingly characteristic. There is good description of Devonshire scenery ; and lastly there is Clarice, a most successful heroine, who must speak to the reader for herself.&rdquo;&mdash; -Athen&auml;um. &ldquo;Very readable and amusing. We would especially give an honourable men&not;,tion to Mr. Collins&#39;s &lsquo; vers de soci&eacute;t&eacute; the writing of which has almost become a lost art .&rdquo;&mdash; Pati Riali Gazette. &ldquo; A bright, fresh, and original book, with which we recommend all genuine novel readers to become acquainted at the earliest opportunity.&rdquo;&mdash; Standard.,THE SPINSTERS OF MAR. TRAVERS. 2 vols. &ldquo; A pretty story. In all respects deserv- I ing of a favourable reception.&rsquo;&rsquo;&mdash; Graphic. |,BLATCHINGTON. By Crown 8vo. &ldquo;A book of more than average merits and worth reading.&rdquo;&mdash; -Examiner .,THOMASINA. By the Author of &ldquo; DOROTHY,&rdquo; &ldquo; DE CRESSY,&rdquo; etc. 2 vols. Crown 8vo.,&ldquo; We would liken it to a finished and delicate cabinet picture, in which there is no brilliant colour, and yet all is harmony ; in which no line is without its purpose, but all contribute to the unity of the work.&rdquo;&mdash; A theneeum. &ldquo;For the delicacies of character-drawing,,for play of incident, and for finish of style, we must refer our readers to the story itself : from the perusal of which they cannot fail to derive both interest and amusement .&rdquo;&mdash;Daily Nezvs. &ldquo;This undeniably pleasing story.&rdquo;&mdash; Pall Alali Gazette.,THE STORY OF SIR EDWARD&rsquo;S WIFE. By HAMILTON MARSHALL, Author of &ldquo;For Very Life. 3 &rsquo; i voi. Crown 8vo. &ldquo;A quiet graceful little story .&quot;&mdash;Spec- I &lsquo;Sir Edward&rsquo;s Wife* that he can tell a story closely and pleasantly.&rdquo;&mdash; Pall-Mall I here are many clever conceits in it. Gazette. . . . Mr. Hamilton Marshall proves in |,LINKED AT LAST. Crown 8vo. &ldquo; &lsquo; Linked at Last &rsquo; contains so much of pretty description, natural incident, and delicate portraiture, that the reader who once takes it up will not be inclined to re-,By F. E. BUNNETT, r voi. I linquish it without concluding the volume.&rdquo; &mdash;Morning Post. &ldquo;A very charming story .&rdquo;&mdash;John Bull.,65, Cornhill ; &iquest;F&rsquo; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
Fiction&mdash; continued.,PERPLEXITY. By SYDNEY MOSTYN. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.,&ldquo;Written with very considerable power, the plot is original and . . . worked out with great cleverness and sustained interest. &rdquo;&mdash; Standard. . &ldquo; Shows much lucidity, much power of portraiture, and no inconsiderable sense of humour.&rdquo;&mdash; Exa7ti&Iacute;7ier. &ldquo; The literary workmanship is good, and the story forcibly and graphically told.&rdquo;&mdash; Daily News. HER TITLE OF HOF Second Edition, i voi. Cro &ldquo;It is unnecessary to recommend tales of Holme Lee&rsquo;s, for they are well known, and all more or less liked. But this book far exceeds even our favourites&mdash;&lsquo; Sylvan Holt&rsquo;s Daughter/ &lsquo;Kathie Brande/ and JOUR. By HOLME LEE. wn 8vo. &lsquo; Thorny Hall &#39;&mdash;because with the interest of a pathetic story is united the value of a definite and high purpose.&rdquo; &mdash; Spectator. &ldquo;A most exquisitely written story.&rdquo;&mdash; LiteraTy Churchman. BRESSANT. A Romance. By JULIAN HAW&not; THORNE. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. [ Preparing . CRUEL&middot; AS THE GRA BOTHMER. 3 vols. Crow &ldquo; Jealousy is cru &ldquo;The Wise Man&rsquo;s motto is prefixed to an interesting, though somewhat tragic story, by the Countess von Bothmer. . . Her German prince, with his chivalrous affection, his disinterested patriotism, and his soldierlike sense of duty, is no unworthy VE. By the Countess VON n 8vo. el as the Grave.&quot; type of a national character which has lately given the world many instances of old-fashioned heroism.&rdquo;&mdash; Athenceum. &ldquo;An agreeable, unaffected, and emi&not; nently readable novel .&quot;&mdash;Daily News. MEMOIRS OF MRS. By WILLIAM CLARK RU Authors.&rdquo; Crown 8vo. &iexcl; s. &ldquo;The book is clever and ingenious.&rdquo;&mdash; Saturday Review. &ldquo; One of the most delightful books I have read for a very long while. Very few works of truth or fiction are so thoroughly L&AElig;TITIA BOOTHBY. SSELL, Author of &ldquo; The Book of d. entertaining from the first page to the last.&rdquo;&mdash; Judy. &ldquo;This is a very clever book, one of the best imitations of the productions of the last century that we have seen.&rdquo;&mdash; Guardian.,LITTLE HODGE. A Christmas Country Carol. By EDWARD JENKINS, Author of &ldquo;Ginx&rsquo;s Baby,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 5 j&middot;. &ldquo;The pathos of some of the passages is xtremely touching У &mdash; Manchester Ex-,&ldquo;We shall be mistaken if it does not obtain a very Avide circle of readers.&rdquo;&mdash; United Service Gazette. &ldquo; Wise and humorous, but yet most pathetic. &rdquo;&mdash; Nonconformist.,1 One of the most seasonable of Christ- s stories .&rsquo;&#39;&mdash;Literary IVorld.,65, Cornhill; &amp;amp; 12, Patemoster Row, London.
F ICTION &mdash; continued. GINX&rsquo;S BABY; HIS BIRTH AND OTHER MISFORTUNES. By EDWARD JENKINS. Twenty-ninth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 2 s.,LORD BANTAM. By EDWARD JENKINS, Author of &ldquo; Ginx&rsquo;s Baby. &rdquo; Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 2s.,HERMANN AGHA : An Eastern Narrative. By W. GIFFORD PALGRAVE, Author of &ldquo;Travels in Central Arabia.&rdquo; &amp;amp;C. Second Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, cloth, extra,gilt. i8r. &ldquo; Reads like a tale of life, with all its incidents. The young will take to it for its love portions, the older for its descrip&not; tions, some in this day for its Arab philo&not; sophy. &rdquo;&mdash;A thenceum. &ldquo;The cardinal merit, however, of the story is, to our thinking, the exquisite sim&not;,plicity and purity of the love portion. There is a positive fragrance as of newly- mown hay about it, as compared with the artificially perfumed passions which are detailed to us with such gusto by our ordinary novel-writers in their endless volumes. &rdquo;&mdash; Observer.,SEPTIMIUS. A Romance. By NATHANIEL HAW&not; THORNE. Author of &ldquo;The Scarlet Letter,&rdquo; &ldquo;Transformation,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Second Edition, i voi. Crown 8vo, cloth, extra gilt. 9.Г. A peculiar interest attaches to this work. It was the last thing the author wrote, and he may be said to have died as he finished it. The A thetutum says that &ldquo; the book is I thorne&rsquo;s writing ; every page is impressed full of Hawthorne&rsquo;s most characteristic with his peculiar view of thought, conveyed writing.&rdquo; in his own familiar way.&rdquo;&mdash; Post. &ldquo;One of the best examples of Haw- |,PANDURANG HARI; Or, Memoirs of a Hindoo. A Talc of Mahratta Life sixty years ago. With a Preface, by Sir H. BARTLE E. FRERE, G.C.S.I., &amp;amp;c. 2 vols. Crown 8vo.,THE TASMANIAN LILY. By JAMES BONWICK, Author of &ldquo; Curious Facts of Old Colonial Days,&rdquo; &amp;amp;c. Crown 8vo. Illustrated. [Prefaring.,A GOOD MATCH. By AMELIA PERRIER, Author of &ldquo; Mea Culpa.&rdquo; 2 vols. &ldquo; Racy and lively .&rdquo;&mdash;A thenceum. ! &ldquo;This clever and amusing novel .&rdquo;&mdash;Pall &ldquo; As pleasant and readable a novel as we Mall Gazette. have seen this season.&rdquo;&mdash; Examiner. | &ldquo; Agreeably written .&quot;&mdash;Public Opinion.,65, Cornhill ; &aring;r 12, Paternoster Row, London.
&pound;bc Curabili &iquest;Citrrurir uf Jr cium. 3 s. Gd. per Volume. I T is intended in this Series to produce I They are well printed on good paper, hand&not; books of such merit that readers will somely bound, with a Frontispiece, and are care to preserve them on their shelves. | sold at the moderate price of 3s. 6d. each.,ROBIN GRAY. By Charles Gibbon&#39;. With a Frontispiece by Hennessy.,KITTY. By Miss M. Betham- Edwards.,READY MONEY MORTI- BOY. [y ust out.,HIRELL. By John Saunders, Author of &ldquo; Abel Drake&rsquo;s Wife.&rdquo;,ONE OF TWO. By J. Hain Friswell, Author of &ldquo;The Gentle Life,&rdquo; etc.,GOD&rsquo;S PROVIDENCE HOUSE. By Mrs. G. L. Banks.,OTHER STANDARD NOVELS TO FOLLOW.,Jfurtbcummij flu be Is.,WHAT &rsquo;TIS TO LOVE. By the Author of &ldquo; Flora Adair,&rdquo; &ldquo;The Value of Fosterstown.&rdquo; 3 vols.,CIVIL SERVICE. By J. T. Listado, Author of &ldquo; Maurice Reyn- harL &rdquo; 2 vols.,VANESSA. By the Author of &ldquo; Thomasina,&rdquo; etc. 2 vols.,A LITTLE WORLD. By Geo. Manville Fenn, Author of &ldquo; The Sapphire Cross,&rdquo; &ldquo; Mad,&rdquo; etc.,THE QUEEN&rsquo;S SHILLING. By Capt. Arthur Griffiths, Author of &ldquo;Peccavi; or, Geoffrey Singleton&rsquo;s Mistake.&rdquo; 2 vols.,TOO LATE. By Mrs. New&not; man. 2 vols. Crown 8 vo.,LISETTE&rsquo;S VENTURE. By Mrs. Russell Gray. 2 vols. Cr. 8vo.,A WINTER FRIEND. By Fredk. Wedmore, Author of &ldquo;A Snapt Gold Ring.&rdquo; 2 vols. Cr. 8 vo.,65 , Cornhill ; &acirc;r 12, Paternoster Row, London.
HUihjmus. THE ETERNAL LIFE. Being fourteen sermons. By the Rev. JAS. NOBLE BENNIE, M.A. Crown 8vo. _ [Nearly ready\ MISSIONARY ENTERPRISE IN THE EAST. By the Rev. RICHARD COLLINS. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. _ [Preparing. THE REALM OF TRUTH. By Miss E. CARNE. Crown 8vo. [Preparing. HYMNS FOR THE CHURCH AND HOME. By the Rev. W. FLEMING STEVENSON, Author of &ldquo; Pray&not; ing and Working.&rdquo; [ Preparing. THE YOUNG LIFE EQUIPPING ITSELF FOR GOD&rsquo;S SERVICE. Being Four Sermons Preached before the University of Cambridge in November, 1872. By the Rev. J. C. VAUGHAN, D.D., Master of the Temple. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 3г. 6d.,WORDS &amp;amp; WORKS IN A LONDON PARISH. Edited by the Rev. CHARLES ANDERSON, M.A. Demy 8vo. 6s.,LIFE CONFERENCES DELIVERED AT TOULOUSE. By the Rev. P&Euml;RE LACORDAIRE. Crown 8vo. 6s.,THOUGHTS FOR THE TIMES. By the Rev. H. R. HAWEIS, M.A., &ldquo;Author of Music and Morals,&rdquo; etc. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 7 s. 6 d.,CATHOLICISM AND THE VATICAN. Narrative of the Old Catholic Congress at Munich. WHITTLE, A.M., Trin. Coll., Dublin. 8vo. 7 s. 6d.,&ldquo;A valuable and philosophic contribu- tion to the solution of one of the greatest questions of this stirring age .&rdquo;&mdash;Church &ldquo;We cannot follow the author through his graphic and lucid sketch of the Catholic,With a By J. LOWRY Second Edition. Crown movement in Germany and of the Munich Congress, at which he was present ; but we may cordially recommend his book to all who wish to follow the course of the movement .&rdquo;&mdash;Saturday Review.,65, Cornhill ; &amp;lt;5r&amp;gt; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
Religious&mdash; continued.,NAZARETH: ITS LIFE AND LESSONS. By the Author of &ldquo;THE DIVINE KINGDOM ON EARTH AS IT IS IN HEAVEN.&rdquo; Second Edition. In small 8vo, cloth. 5.Г.,&ldquo; In Him was life , and the life was the light of mai.&rdquo;,&ldquo;A singularly reverent and beautiful book ; the style in which it is written is not less chaste and attractive than its subject.&rdquo;&mdash; Daily Telegraph. &ldquo; Perhaps one of the most remarkable books recently issued in the whole range of,English theology.Original in design, calm and appreciative in language, noble and elevated in style, this book, we venture to think, will live.&rdquo;&mdash; Churchman&#39;$ Magazine.,SCRIPTURE LANDS IN CONNECTION WITH THEIR HISTORY. By G. S. DREW, M.A., Vicar of Trinity, Lambeth, Author of &ldquo;Reasons of Faith.&rdquo; Second Edition. Bevelled boards, 8vo. Price ios. 6 d.,&ldquo; Mr. Drew has invented a new method of illustrating Scripture history &mdash; from observation of the countries. Instead of narrating his travels, and referring from time to time to the facts of sacred history belonging to the different countries, he writes an outline history of the Hebrew nation from Abraham downwards, with special reference to the various points in which the geography illustrates the his&not; tory. The advantages of this plan are obvious. Mr. Drew thus gives us not a mere imitation of &lsquo; Sinai and Palestine,&rsquo; but,a view of the same subject from the other side. . . . He is very successful in pic&not; turing to his readers the scenes before his own mind. The position of Abraham in Palestine is portrayed, both socially and geographically, with great vigour. Mr. Drew has given an admirable account of the Hebrew sojourn in Egypt, and has done much to popularise the newly-acquired knowledge of Assyria in connection with the two Jewish Kingdoms.&rdquo;&mdash; Saturday Review.,MEMORIES OF VILLIERSTOWN. By C. J. S. Crown 8vo. With Frontispiece. 5 s.,SIX PRIVY COUNCIL JUDGMENTS&mdash;1850-1872. Annotated by W. G. BROOKE, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. Crown 8 vo. 9 s. _,THE DIVINE KINGDOM ON EARTH AS IT IS IN FIE AVEN. In demy 8vo, bound in cloth. Price 10s. 6 d. \Now ready. &ldquo; Our Conwionwealth is in Heaven.&rdquo;,&ldquo;A high purpose and a devout spirit characterize this work. It is thoughtful and eloquent. . . . The most valuable and uggestive chapter is entitled &lsquo; Fulfil&not; ments in Life and Ministry of Christ,&rsquo; which is full of original thinking admi&not; rably expressed.&rdquo;&mdash; British Quarterly Re- &ldquo; It is seldom that, in the course of our critical duties, we have to deal with a,volume of any size or pretension so en&not; tirely valuable and satisfactory as this. Published anonymously as it is, there is no living divine to whom the authorship would not be a credit. . . . Not the least of its merits is the perfect simplicity and clearness, conjoined with a certain massive beaut y, of its style.&rdquo;&mdash; Literary Churchman.,65, Cornhill; 6&deg; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
fife cicit ox h s &ucirc;f ih &icirc;l cir. irret&igrave;. Щ. Roberts on, NEW AND CHEAPER EDITIONS.,LIFE AND LETTERS. Edited by Stopford Brooke, M.A., Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen. In 2 vols., uniform with the Sermons. Price 7 s. 6 d. Library Edition, in demy 8vo, with Two Steel Portraits. 12 j. A Popular Edition, in 1 voi. Price 6s. SERMONS. Four Series. 4 vols, small crown 8vo, price 3$. 6d. per voi. EXPOSITORY LECTURES ON ST. PAUL&rsquo;S EPISTLE TO THE CORINTHIANS. Small crown 8vo. 5s.,AN ANALYSIS OF MR. TENNYSON&rsquo;S &ldquo; IN MEMO&not; RIAM.&rdquo; (Dedicated by permission to the Poet-Laureate.) Fcap. 8vo. 2 s. THE EDUCATION OF THE HUMAN RACE. Translated from the German of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Fcap. 8vo. zs.6d. LECTURES &amp;amp; ADDRESSES ON LITERARY AND SOCIAL TOPICS. Small crown 8vo. 35&middot;. 6 d. [Preparing. A LECTURE ON FRED. w. ROBERTSON, M.A. By the Rev. F. A. Noble, delivered before the Young Men&#39;s Christian Association of Pittsburgh, U. S. is. 6d.,Sermons bn tbe |tcir. Sfopforb ft. franbe, ШД, Chaplain in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen. CHRIST IN MODERN LIFE. Sermons Preached in St. James&rsquo;s Chapel, York Street, London. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 7 s. 6 &lsquo;■Nobly fearieK and singularly strong. . . . carries our admiration throughout.&rdquo; &mdash; British Quarterly Review.,FREEDOM IN THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND. Six Sermons suggested by the Voysey Judgment. Second Edition. In i voi. Crown 8vo, cloth. 33&middot;. 6d.,&ldquo;A very fair statement of the views in respect to freedom of thought held by the liberal party in the Church of England.&quot;&mdash; Blackwood &rsquo;s Magazine.,&ldquo; Interesting and readable, and charac&not; terised by great clearness of thought, frankness of statement, and moderation of tone .&rdquo;&mdash;Church Opinion.,SERMONS Preached in St. James&rsquo;s Chapel, York Street, London. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. No one who reads these sermons will I They are fiery, energetic, impetuous ser- wonder that Mr. Brooke is a great power mons, rich with the treasures of a culti- m London, that his chapel is thronged, vated imagination.&quot;&mdash; Guardian. and his followers large and enthusiastic. | THE LIFE AND WORK OF FREDERICK DENISON MAURICE : A Memorial Sermon. Crown 8vo, sewed, is.,65 , Cornhill; 12, Paternoster Row, London.
THE DAY OF REST. Weekly, price ONE PENNY, and in MONTHLY PARTS ,price SIXPENCE. On the i9t of January, 1873, was published No. I. of the above, a new Illustrated Magazine for Sunday Reading.,Among the leading Contributions to the First Year&rsquo;s Issue may be mentioned :&mdash;,WORDS FOR THE DAY. By C. J. Vaughan, D.D., Master of the Temple. LABOURS OF LOVE ; Being further Accounts of what is being done by Dr. Wichern and others. By the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson, Author of &ldquo; Pray&not; ing and Working.&rdquo; OCCASIONAL PAPERS. By the Rev. Thomas Binney. SUNDAYS IN MY LIFE. By the Au&not; thor of &ldquo; Episodes in an Obscure Life.&rdquo; SONGS OF REST. By George Mac&not; donald.,TO ROME AND BACK: A Narrative of Personal Experience. By One who has made the Journey. *** The late Dr. Norman Macleod, dur&not; ing the last few months of his life, frequently urged the preparation of a series of Popular Papers, by a thoroughly competent person, on the Church of Rome as it really is to&not; day. &ldquo; To Rome and Back&rdquo; is the result of his suggestion. THE BATTLE OF THE POOR: Sketches from Courts and Alleys. By Hesba Stretton, Author of &lsquo;&lsquo;Jessica&rsquo;s First Prayer,&rdquo; and &ldquo; Little Meg&rsquo;s Children.&rdquo;,Illustrated by the best Artists. Large Folio. Price One Penny Weekly. Monthly Parts, Price Sixpence.,THE CONTEMPORARY REVIEW. THEOLOGICAL, LITERARY, AND SOCIAL. Price Half-a-Crown Monthly.,THE SAINT PAULS MAGAZINE. LIGHT AND CHOICE. Price One Shilling Monthly.,GOOD THINGS FOR THE YOUNG OF ALL AGES. Edited by GEORGE MACDONALD, And Illustrated by the best Artists. Price Sixpence Monthly.,Bradbury, Agnew, &amp;amp; Co., Printers, Whitefria