Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
Hints and suggestions for the management of working men&#39;s clubs and institutes
HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS,ГОЕ, THE,FORMATION AND MANAGEMENT,OF,ffl&oslash;rtoj Ipeiťs (Шгя &amp;amp; fiiAtes.,LONDON :,Issued by the Council of the,WORKING MEN&rsquo;S CLUB &amp;amp; INSTITUTE UNION,,AND MAY BE HAD AT THEIE OFFICE,,150, STRAND, W.C.,OK OF,BELL AND DAŁDY, 186, FLEET STREET.,&mdash;:&mdash; о -,(price twopence.)
London ;&mdash;,SLATTER BROTHERS, PRINTERS, 48, BLACKFRIARS ROAD, S
WORKING MEN&rsquo;S,CLUB AND INSTITUTE UNION,,FOB PROMOTING THE SOCIAL, MENTAL, AND MORAL IMPROVE&not; MENT AND RECREATION OF THE WORKING CLASSES.,IJresibcni.,THE RIGHT HON. LORD BROUGHAM.,&copy;ке-ЗЭгшЬшЬ*,The Right Hon. EARL SPENCER.,The Right Hon. EARL FORTESCUE. The Right Hon. EA.RL of DUCIE.,The Right Hon. LORD LYTTELTON. The Right Hon. LORD CALTHORPE. Viscount RAYNHAM, MP., Tamworth. The Very Rev. the DEAN of CARLISLE. The Very Rev. the DEAN of CHICHES&not; TER.,The Very Rev. the DEAN of ELY,,Sir WILLIAM A&rsquo;BECKETT, late Chief Justice of Victoria.,Hon. and Rev. W. H. LYTTELTON, M.A., Hagley.,SAMUEL BOWLY, Esq., Gloucester. Rev. WILLIAM BROCK, London.,J. IVATT BRISCOE*, Esq., M.P. FRANK CROSSLEY, Esq., M.P.,Rev, H. GIBSON, M.A., Rector of Fy- field, Essex.,RUSSELL GURNEY, Esq., Q.C., Re&not; corder of London.,Rev. Dr. GUTHRIE, Edinburgh.,Rev. NEWMAN HALL, LL.B., London.,GEORGE W. HASTINGS, Esq., lion. Sec. Social Science Association.,JAMES HEYWOOD, Esq., F.R.S., Lon- don.,MATTH KW DAVENPORT HILL, Esq., Recordor of Birmingham.,THOMAS HUGHES, Fsq., B.A. (Lin- coin&rsquo;s Inn.),The Rev. CANON JENKYN, M.A., Merthyr.,AUSTEN H.LAYARD, Esq., M.P., D.C.L.,Mr. SERJEANT MANNING, Q.A.S., Recorder of Oxford.,WILLIAM M. NEILL, Esq., Man-,cheater.,J. SLANEY PAKINGTON, Esq., Presi- dent of the Worcestershire Union of Educational Institutes.,Rev. W. MORLEY PUNSHON, M.A., London.,THEODORE RATHBONE, Esq., J.P., Liverpool.,The Rev. CANON ROBINSON. MA York.,A. J. SCOTT, Esq., A.M., Owen&rsquo;s Col&not; lege, Manchester,,JOHN ABEL SMITH, Esq., London.
Council.,Mr. JOHN BAINBRIDGE.,CAPTAIN BAYLY.,Mrs. BAYLY.,Mr. JOHN BEBBINGTON.,Rev. J. BALDWIN BROWN, В .A,,Miss JANET CHAMBERS.,EDWARD G. CLARKE, Esq.,Miss ADELINE COOPER.,Mr. WALTER COOPER.,Miss ISA CRAIG.,Rev. A. J. D. DORSEY, B.D., Corpus Christi College.,Mrs. WILLIAM FISON.,W. E. FRANKS, Esq.,R. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq., B.A, GODFREY LUSHINGTON, Esq., M.A. Mrs. (Serjeant; MANNING.,HUGH OWEN, Esq., Whitehall,,Rev. J. H. RYLANCE, Curate, St. Paul&rsquo;s, Westminster-road.,RUSSELL SCOTT, Esq.,Mr. T. SHORTER, Secretary, &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&rsquo;s&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt;, London.,Miss ANNA SWANWICK.,Rev. DAVID THOMAS, D.D.,Miss E. TWINING.,Scmteg.,REV. HENRY SOLLY. Office: 160 , STRAND, W.C.,Corresponding Utembers.,Rev. F. Bishop, Chesterfield.,Barnett Blake, Esq., Leeds, Yorkshire Union of Mechanics&rsquo; Institutes.,Rev, J. Erskine Clarke, A.M., St. Michael&rsquo;s, Derby.,Handel Cossham, Esq., Bristol.,J. H. Cotterell, Esq., Bath.,E. B. Dawson, Esq., LL.B., Lancaster.,Robert Elliott, Esq., M.D., J.P., Car&not; lisle.,Rev. Stenton Eardley. M.A., Streatham.,Mr. J. C. Edwards, Manchester.,The Mayor of Faversham.,Joseph A, Horner, Esq., F.R.S.L., Brom- ley-by-Bow.,E. C. Howard, Esq,, Brinuington Hall, Stockport.,Rev. J. Hyde, Jun,, Derby.,John Jones, Esq.,. Dudley, Secretary, Staffordshire Association for Adult Edu&not; cation.,J. A. Langford, Esq., Birmingham.,J*. N. Langley, Esq., M.A., Wolver&not; hampton.,Rev. W. R. Tilson Marsh, M.A., St, Leo- nard&rsquo;s-on-Sea.,Dr. Martin, Warrington.,Rev. W. N. Molesworth, M.A., St. Cie&#39; ment&rsquo;s, Rochdale.,Rev. E. Monro, M.A., St. John&rsquo;s, Leeds.,J. D. Morell, Esq., LL.D., H.M.&rsquo;s In&not; spector of Schools, Bowdon.,Arthur Ryland, Esq., J.P., Birming&not; ham.,Philip Rathbone, Esq., Liverpool.,F. J. Thompson, Esq., Bridgewater.,Samuel A. Thompson, Esq., Thingwall Hall, Liverpool.,Edward Ward, Esq., Brighton.,Rev. C. W. Wilson, M.A., Christchurch, Southampton.,&sect; ankers.,LONDON AND WESTMINSTER BANK, ST. JAMES&rsquo;S SQUARE.
Suggestions for the Formation and Management of Working Mens Cluhs i Institutes , Halls , &amp;amp;c.,The Council of the &ldquo;Working Men&rsquo;s Club and Institute Union,&rdquo; with a view to aid these undertakings, and in reply to various inquiries, offer the following hints and suggestions :&mdash;,Ною to Commence them. The f rst point is to understand and to define clearly the objects for which the Society is formed, and these we should recommend to be expressed in these or similar terms :,&ldquo; Objects. To provide a Club or Institute as members of which the Working Men of the neighbourhood can enjoy rational social intercourse with each other, coupled with opportunities for mental improvement, recreation, and mutual helpfulness ; and further, to give them facilities for carrying on various plans of social im&not; provement such as Co-operative Societies, Friendly, or Benefit Clubs, Mutual Improvement Societies, Building Societies, and the like, in the prosecution of which Working Men are at present often obliged to resort to public houses for the mere want of better meeting places.&rdquo;,The chief aim should be the development of the social and the educational elements in genial combination, while whatever can promote the working man&rsquo;s rational enjoyment and general welfare should receive a stimulus from the arrangements and influences of the Club.,These Clubs should help the working classes towards a social life. By social life we mean, in the first place, pleasant company&mdash;but not this only or chiefly : we mean also the feelings, the habits, and all the various forms of joint activity appropriate to the whole class of working men, or at least to all those who would realise their actual position of living together as fellow-workers, as neighbours, as citizens, and as men. It is of the highest importance that the necessity should be clearly stated for making these Clubs and Institutes something more than merely places where men may come to get a little amusement or a little instruction, a cup of coffee or a plea&not; sant chat. They are to furnish all this, but something higher and better also, otherwise they are based upon the gratification of merely selfish instincts, and cannot last. They must be societies, of which tuo members should be led to feel an interest in one another&rsquo;s well
being, and a desire to promote the common good. There is no fear of the sociability of the Club-room being spoilt by the studies of the Class-room, The two are supplementary, the one to the other. The one inspires the general social sentiment, the other is the best guarantee for substantial knowledge, steady habit, personal effort and a sense of duty&mdash;conditions without which any mere sen&not; timent evaporates, without which no society can long hold toge&not; ther. The Club will be most honoured, most loved, and most enjoyed by those who have found an opportunity within its walls, alone or together with others, to put forth their efforts for the good of all. Thus, by various means each must be en&not; couraged to do what he can for the general success of the enter- prize and for the individual comfort aud welfare of his brother members. In proportion as this corporate, brotherly spirit is evoked and cherished the Club will not only be securing the best chance of permanence, but will be sure to do far greater good while it lasts, than could have been effected by the most lavish expenditure of money or by any accumulation of mere teaching appliances. And assuredly, in proportion as men are thus brought away from mere animal or empty, often debasing enjoyment into a state of higher social life, into collision with thoughtful enquiring minds, and into a manly fellowship with each other, both their intellectual and moral nature will be unfolded, more advanced education will be desired, and the way prepared for that quickening nurture of their highest spiritual life, towards which efforts for the true and enduring welfare of our fellow creatures necessarily tend.,This is not the place for enlarging on the beneficial effects of such influences in promoting the comfort and improvement of a man&rsquo;s home, in making him a better husband, father, or brother, but vre cannot forbear referring to them, because the Club is sometimes erroneously supposed to be a rival or antagonist to the home. It ought to be, and if wisely managed on the above principles it in&not; evitably would be, full of blessings to that family club which gathers round the domestic hearth, and which should always have the first claim on a man&rsquo;s consideration.,The objects being clearly defined by the promoters of such an un&not; dertaking, the next step is taken, in some cases, by one or more bene&not; volent persons raising the requisite funds among their friends, and then inviting a number of working men to undertake the manage&not; ment of the Society, according to certain fundamental rules pre&not; viously laid down ; leaving them to make the general regulations
and bye-laws themselves. In other cases, a public meeting is first held, at which a Provisional Committee is appointed. In one instance a Conference of delegates from the various workshops and factories in the town was appointed at a public meeting, from which a Working Men&rsquo;s Society subsequently sprang. The best plan to adopt must of course greatly depend upon local circum&not; stances; but, on the whole, the following is probably the wisest course, subject to local modifications :&mdash;,Let the person or persons originating the movement invite a few of those most likely to be interested in it, to a private meeting, at which fundamental rules can be agreed upon and steps taken for pro&not; curing the necessary funds, as nothing should be required from the working men themselves, if possible, beyond their periodical pay&not; ments for the working expenses ; all preliminary outlay, whether merely for furniture and books, or, in addition, for altering or building premises, should be provided from other sources. If a public meeting is then determined on, which, in most cases, would be the best way of attracting the attention of the working classes, the attendance of the members for the Borough or County, of the magistrates, clergy, and ministers of the district, should, if possible, be secured. Especially it is desirable that a number of the most intelligent and influential of the working men in the neighbourhood should be interested in the movement, and that some of them should appear and speak on the platform. In a corporate town, the Mayor should, if possible, be secured for the chair. A provi&not; sional Managing Committee should then be appointed, after an ex&not; planation of the principles and objects of the proposed Society, and the names of persons willing to join should be taken down ; or a Co erence of delegates from the workshops of the neighbourhood might be arranged. This latter step would be especially useful in cases where there is more than usual difficulty in securing the interest or confidence of the working classes. A house-to-house canvass, by members of the Provisional Committee, for the re&not; quisite funds, may sometimes be useful or necessary.,As soon as a sufficient number of working men have given in their names as members, the Provisional Committee should summon a meeting of members (ordinary and honorary) at which officers and a permanent Committee should be chosen, and the general rules agreed on.,In some cases these societies have originated with ladies or gentlemen, who take an interest in the welfare of the working classes, and have been established through their personal influence,
on the one hand with the gentry, and on the other with the working classes of the neighbourhood. Wherever this element of personal influence, exercised by persons commanding the respect of their neighbours, is a primary power in the enterprize, not only many difficulties are removed, and much arduous effort saved, but the very difficult problem is most easily solved of combining the guidance, help, or mediation of persons in the higher classes, with the principle of independent management and responsibility on the part of the working men.,This brings us to the second question :&mdash;,How to carry them on. A primary principle, and one of the highest importance, is that the working men should be made to feel responsible for the success of the Society, and be trusted with a corresponding share in its management. Facts in all direc&not; tions prove that this is absolutely necessary to insure a healthy and permanent Institution. In some cases, the Managing Com&not; mittee consists entirely of working men, and they have obtained the necessary counsel and help required beyond their own body, by being able to apply for it, informally, to one or more zealous and easily accessible friends in the class above them. In other cases, the Committee has been of a more mixed character from the first, and men of all classes have worked usefully and harmoniously together. Occasionally, the Trustees form a sort of Council for consultation ; but whatever the composition of the managing body, one half of it, at least, should consist of working men. Several failures in otherwise well-devised schemes, have taken place from want of attention to this principle.,The rules of these societies are very various. We subjoin a statement of some in common use. They are derived from corre&not; spondence with a large body of existing Institutions and are intended for persons desiring to found new societies.,1. Name. Working Men&rsquo;s Club and Institute, Working Men&rsquo;s Club and Reading Rooms, Workmen&rsquo;s Hall, Working Men&rsquo;s Mutual Improvement and Recreation Society, Working Men&rsquo;s Institute, or Village Club and Lecture Hall.,2. Objects. Defined as above or in terms equivalent.,3. The Payments required by different Institutes vary from one Half-penny per week up to Eight Shillings per annum. In some cases One Shilling admission fee is charged. In most cases a Half-penny is too little, and in all we should say that at pre&not; sent Two Shillings per Quarter is decidedly too much. As a general rule, these Working Men&rsquo;s Clubs cannot now be self-
supporting ; and no admission-fee should be charged. Not only must the preliminary outlay be defrayed by the contributions of friends, but in many localities, for a time at least, a considerable proportion of the current expense. Yet how can benevolent contri&not; butions be better applied ? Every penny should be asked of the working men which they are able and willing to pay, to cherish a feeling of independence. But the advantages which the Clubs might afford would be miserably crippled, if nothing more were done than what the pence, or even shillings, of the working men could provide.,It is very desirable to get the members to pay in advance for each quarter&mdash;say one shilling ; they will seldom pay more, willingly, until they have long appreciated the advantages of the Club-rooms ; and if (as is likely to be the case, where there is no recreation-ground for the summer months) they pay only for the two winter quarters, instead of the whole year&rsquo;s subscription in advance being required to entitle them to vote, it would be better that regular weekly, or other payments for three months previous to a general meeting should be the qualification for voting.,In many cases, however, working men will be unable to pay even one shilling in advance, and in others unwilling. Where the inabi&not; lity really exists, it is far better to let all the privileges of member&not; ship accompany one penny per week payment than lose the general support of the locality ; and where there is simply an unwillingness to pay, let all privileges be enjoyed on payment of the penny, with the exception of restricting the right of voting to those, as above said, who have paid their penny for some period not less than a month. In general, the Penny payments will be the best for a commencement. Tea-meetings, Exhibitions of Dissolving Views, or Concerts in the winter, and a recreation-field in summer, will often make up a deficient revenue. At the Club-rooms in West&not; minster, the letters of the alphabet (not consecutively) are used to distinguish the ticket for the week which has to be shown by each member as he enters. The promoters of the excellent Reading Rooms at Southampton, recommend that &ldquo; the room should be open free for the first month, [would not a week be better ?] that work- ing men may see and judge for themselves.&rdquo; This is an excellent suggestion, especially for large towns.,4. Mode of Admission. Some Institutes require a ballot for can&not; didates proposed, but this is extremely objectionable. The Public House requires no proposing or ballotting for candidates for admission to their tap-room, and every possible hindrance
to working men joining these Clubs and Institutes should be removed. Let payments of the required subscription constitute membership, and let that payment be as low as circumstances permit.,Where a Juvenile Institution or Reading Room exists, which is a very desirable part of the plan, none should be admitted as mem&not; bers of the adult club under the age of sixteen.,5. Officers. These consist of President, Treasurer, Secretary, Auditors, and Committee, elected in most cases annually, but some&not; times every six months. Half the Committee occasionally retire in rotation annually. The composition of the Committee is elsewhere dwelt upon.,6. Fundamental Rules , in some cases, are unalterable, while the Society lasts ; in others, where no Trust deed forbids, a four-fifths vote at a special General Meetiug of members is required for their alteration. Special General Meetings may be, and in most cases must be called at a fortnight&rsquo;s notice, and upon the requisition of from twelve to twenty members. The Committee or Directors may call such a meeting whenever they deem it desirable; the business to be transacted being, as far as possible, notified to every member at least a week previously. Appeals may generally be made against the decision of the Committee to a General Meeting.,7. Committees fill up all vacancies occuring in their own body between General Meetings.,8. Members give at least one week&rsquo;s notice of intention to leave ; but if, on failing to do so, subscriptions are still held due, there is danger of men staying away altogether. When, however, they belong to any Provident, Co-operative, or other Society connected with the Club, they should be required to pay for consecutive weeks, as they would be deriving benefit from that connexion.,9. Members sick or out of employment are sometimes allowed the benefits of Membership, without paying subscriptions.,10. Power of expelling or suspending a member for disorderly conduct, or other sufficient reason, to be vested in the Committee.,11. All elections of Committeemen and Officers take place by ballot.,12. No Members under 18 years of age are allowed to vote.,13. Rooms are generally kept open from 8 in the morning till 10 at night, or in large towns till 11. As a general rule, it is very desirable that the rooms should be open on Sundays, under such arrangements as may be made by the local Committee.,14. Smoking , where not allowed in the Coffee-room, should be provided for by allotting a separate room for the purpose.
15. Refreshments to be supplied at, as nearly as possible, cost price, great care being taken to have them thoroughly good of their kind. The housekeeper should not be remunerated by a profit on them.,16. The admission of Books and Periodicals is generally subject to the approval of the Committee.,17. The circulation of Books from the Library should be provided for, fines being imposed, especially in the case of new books, if detained beyond a reasonable 1 imit ; and a time should also be fixed for obtaining a newspaper, after its being asked for by another member in the Reading-room.,18. Newspapers are sold, after the first or second day, to the highest bidder.,19. A book is kept for the Members to enter any special remarks, recommendations of books, subjects for discussion, &amp;amp;c.,20. The property of the Club is sometimes vested in the Town Council of the City or Borough, or in the Board of Guardians of the district, to prevent its dispersion or alienation, and to guard against inconveniences that might arise from private trusteeships. Where it has been purchased by a few individuals, that control over it which they would naturally wish to retain, and the opportunity of occasional conference with the Managing Committee which their interest in the undertaking would cause them sometimes to desire, may be provided for, without any undue interference with the power of the Managing Committee, by a clause in the &ldquo; Rules,&rdquo; or Deed to the following effect ;&mdash;,&ldquo;The premises and other property of the Club is vested in the gentlemen who have purchased it, as Trustees&mdash;viz. Messrs.- - -,The Trustees shall &bdquo;be responsible for the fulfilment of the objects for which the property is purchased, and for the preservation of its fundamental rules. They shall also form a Council for conference with the Committee of Management, when the latter desire assist&not; ance or consultation.&rdquo;,It is of the greatest importance, while the rights of Trustees are carefully preserved and their duties clearly defined, that even the appearance of undue control, or anything approaching to inter&not; ference with the general management of the undertaking, should be scrupulously avoided. Working men have been so little accustomed to find themselves expected to manage their own institutions, they have so often been treated like children, and have had so little con- fidence placed in them, that the greatest care is required in dealing with questions of this nature.
The general arrangements we would recommend for carrying into effect the objects proposed are&mdash;,1st. To provide a room easily accessible (a ground-floor is generally the best), for conversation, newspapers, refreshments, and such games as chess, draughts, bagatelle, parlour bowls, dominoes, &amp;amp;c. Other rooms, according to the funds and the size of the premises, should be set apart for periodicals and library book-reading,&mdash;in these talking should be prohibited,&mdash;and a room for smoking. One or more rooms for Classes, Committee-meetings, and general business purposes&mdash;such as meetings of Friendly, Co-operative, or Temperance Societies,&mdash;will be requisite, according to local circumstances; and provision should be made for throwing two or more rooms into one for lectures, general meetings, con&not; certs, social entertainments, and so forth. Wherever the funds will permit, a piano should be purchased for the occasional concerts, and regular social meetings of the Club, Music has great and legitimate attractions, and may promote the purest and most refining influ&not; ences, as unhappily it is at present too often perverted to encourage the worst.,The humanizing influences of Art and Science must be brought to aid in the elevation of the people far more than has hitherto been done.,After the Club-rooms have been opened, it is very desirable that arrangements should be made for providing attractions on one or more nights in the week in addition to the ordinary occupations of the Coffee or Reading-room, such as readings from interesting authors, short graphic descriptions of travel and adventures, glimpses at the lives of eminent men, varied with music and singing, or reci&not; tations, exhibitions of microscopes, stereoscopes, pictures, dissolving views, works of art, and other objects of interest, &amp;amp;c. Clever extempore story-telling, somewhat in the manner of the Italian improvisatori , has been found in some places to be a pleasant way of furnishing an evening&rsquo;s entertainment. It must never be forgotten that we have, in a vast number of cases, to effect a great change in the habits of working men&mdash;a change which at first will be a severe wrench from old habits&mdash;and it is not sufficient to meet such difficulties in a way that would answer only for supplying wants already felt, and gratifying tastes long cherished. We often have to create an appetite, as well as to provide for its gratification.,There is a large number of working men who will not or cannot at first accept instruction in any other than in a gradual and very
popular form, but strenuous endeavours should be made, from the very commencement of the movement, to provide for the more thorough and systematic education of the smaller number who, with higher aspirations and greater capacity for head-work, will thank&not; fully respond to such friendly offers of instruction as may be made to them by educated men. Systematic and advanced classes in connexion with the Club or Institute, or, in large towns, a &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&rsquo;s&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt; as the crowning and central edifice of a group of Working Men&rsquo;s Clubs, should be established the instant that efficient help for the purpose is found to be forthcoming.,Those who are not prepared for systematic education may be led easily and naturally in that direction by some of the above plans for recreation. Thus, a Discussion Class&mdash;which is a good thing for stimulating thought, and calling out the desire for information&mdash; may spring from the conversation of the Coffee-room, or from a per&not; fectly informal meeting to hear a paper read on some subject of practical interest. The topics for discussion first chosen should generally be on questions relating to the working man&rsquo;s everyday life and social interests, such as Friendly and Co-operative Socie&not; ties, Wages, Strikes, Trade Unions, Temperance, &amp;amp;c. In like man&not; ner, a class on Natural History may spring from an exhibition of microscopes, a class for English History from a telling lecture on some historical character, a Literature Class from a meeting for recitations, and thus with other subjects. A Singing Class should be formed as early as possible.,There is often a double difficulty experienced by those who would promote the education of adults in connexion with these Clubs and Institutes&mdash;viz., 1st, a scarcity of voluntary educated teachers; and 2ndly, a reluctance on the part of the working men to come under the yoke of class instruction. Both ladies and gentlemen, however, when they have once resolutely made an attempt to meet a class, have gradually found within themselves an unexpected facility for communicating knowledge and interesting their hearers. Much depends in the first place upon their selecting a subject in which they themselves are thoroughly interested, and in the second upon their talking to their class in an easy conversational style, as they would to young people round the fireside in their own parlour. The adoption of this plan not only helps the teacher, but attracts the pupils, and removes much of the commonly felt objection to clas s instruction. Educated ladies, as is well known, have found a surpris&not; ing and gratifying response to efforts made in this spirit amon&iquest; woiking men, as well as among their own sex. Independently of
success familiar to the public at large, we have known, among other cases, of a class of young men, all of them operatives, highly interested in a course of English History and English Literature and of another equally charmed with a series of explanations of Phy. sical Geography, both conducted by ladies.,Gentlemen who have not the time, or lack the necessary acquaint&not; ance with any particular subject, for undertaking regular instruc&not; tion, may often do great service both to the Institution generally- and their hearers in particular, by occasionally reading a shor paper (Lee ture ts, as our friends at Wimbledon call them) to a Discussion Class and then inviting observations upon it. Their mere attendance once a week at such a class, taking their turn in offering a few observations, is generally very useful, and affords them the opportunity of communicating valuable information or the results of matured thought and experience at a time when the minds of their hearers are in the best possible state for receiving it ? in consequence of the previous discussion. There is a cordial dis&not; position on the part of working men to receive candidly and thank&not; fully any remarks made by educated persons at such a time, when offered in a frank and unpresuming manner.,Working men should always feel that they can come to their Club and Reading Rooms in their working dress. Lavatories should be provided on the premises ; but if the members have first to go home and change their clothes, they are much more likely to turn into the public-house than to lose time or incur extra fatigue after a long day&rsquo;s work.,There is a great deal of hardship, and at the same time of temptation to drinking caused by the present system of the Register of men wanting employment being kept by landlords of public-houses. The names first called off that Register are naturally, but unjustly, not those first on the list, but too often those of the publican&rsquo;s best customers ; and under any circumstances, men going to the House of Call, either to have their names put down or to inquire the result, must generally spend something for &ldquo; the good of the house,&rdquo; and it is well known how often &ldquo; the pint brings on the gallon,&rdquo; The foreman or captain of a shop and the landlord, too often play into one another&rsquo;s hands in this matter.,But wherever a Working Men&rsquo;s Club exists, this Register of per&not; sons needing employment, as well as a list of masters seeking for men, may be kept there instead of at a public-house. Then, as these Clubs extend over the country and become affiliated to the Central Society and united with each other, the registers would
evidently serve a variety of useful purposes, and aid considerably in promoting a free circulation of labour. Of course, any such organisation would be kept entirely distinct from that of Trades &rsquo; Unions. A move has already been made in this direction in Liverpool among the tailors, and for trades generally at Notting Hill, Southampton, Leeds, and various other places.,As soon as sufficient accommodation can be provided, the Friendly Societies in the neighbourhood should be invited to hold their meetings at the Club-house, and thus for a small regular pay&not; ment save the waste of funds or of private spending caused by meeting at a public-house. Mr. Tidd Pratt, in his last Report, mentions &ldquo; the holding of these societies at a public-house &rdquo;as a frequent cause of their failure. (Report on Friendly Societies, p. 35.) In fact, the loss in money to working men, as well as in even far more important respects, from having no place but the public-house to go to for business purposes, is incalculable.,We would strongly recommend among the fundamental rules of these institutions as being, under the present circumstances, neces- sary, one prohibiting, for obvious reasons, the use or sale of intoxi&not; cating drinks on the premises, but it is to be understood that the Union is not at all identified with the Total Abstinence movement, and strongly insists upon the importance of keeping these Working Men s Clubs free from all exclusive and sectarian arrangements, whether upon that or any other question. No exclusive rule should be adopted relative to the composition of local committees. In accordance with these views, the Union itself altogether abstains from direct religious action, of course leaving the local societies to deal with religious matters as they may think right. And the Council would therefore urge upon those societies the maintenance of that generous unsectarian spirit which has enabled earnest men of sincere and, on other points, of differing convictions to meet on common ground, and to co-operate heartily in this their present enterprize.,Other points must be reserved for a subsequent paper, and in the meanwhile the above remarks will be sufficient to remind the pro&not; moters of Working Men&rsquo;s Clubs of most of the matters which have to be provided for in the formation and management of such Institutions.,*** Copies of these &ldquo; Hints and Suggestions &rdquo; in packets for Distribution 1/1 PW dozen post free, and Prospectuses, may be had of the Secretary,&rsquo;,150 , Strand.