Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
A Few words on secular and denominational education, in a letter to the members of the Working Men&#39;s College, etc.
3 , Ъ~/о. C-&iquest;t&iacute;alo&amp;lt;Q*e.d .,Pre sentecl by the Worshibful Comb&oslash;my of Goldsmiths.,1903 .
A FEW WORDS,ON,SECULAR AND DENOMINATIONAL EDUCATION,,IN A LETTER,TO,THF MEMBERS OF THE &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MEN&rsquo;S&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGE&lt;/span&gt;, 45, Great Ormond Street.,By F. D. MAURICE,,PROFESSOR OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.,Uon&icirc;on an&icirc; ffiambr&iacute;bgi : MACMILLAN AND CO. 1870.,Price Sixpence.
&copy;ambr&iacute;Ďge ;,PRINTED BY C. J. CLAY, M. A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.
A LETTER, &amp;amp;c.,My Friends ;&mdash;,A few weeks ago I had the pleasure, now rare, of presiding at one of your meetings. I have been used on such occasions to speak of some topic which connects the work of your College with the general interests of the land. What topic answered more exactly to this description than that with which the House of Commons and all the constituencies have been occupied since the beginning of this session, Mr Forster&rsquo;s Education Bill ? I wished to tell you what was in my mind about that Bill. But I found that it was impossible. I was obliged to say with some shame that I was not sure whether I understood the terms which were most used by those who were discussing the ques&not; tion, You laughed ; had I not been thinking and speaking about English Education for a number of years ; how could I be puzzled about phrases which were in the mouths of all people, which occurred twenty times in every daily newspaper ? I knew it must seem strange to you ; nevertheless it was true. So I saw,I
that I had been wrong to introduce a subject which I could not properly investigate. I turned away from it to speak on one which concerned myself personally, and in some degree you who heard me. I told you what had emboldened me to take any part in the Education of your College. I said that if I did not believe that God was educating you&mdash;you and me&mdash;I should have felt the task which we had set ourselves was a very vain one. Those of you who attended my Bible Class knew that I did believe it, and why I believed it&middot; Very few students had been present at my lessons. I could not the least tell whether my brother teachers would approve or reject them. But they expressed the principle on which I was acting&mdash;the principle on which I was able to act with both students and teachers. If they worked faithfully in their different classes, the Mathematical, the Botanical, the Physiological, or any other, I believed that God would be with those who taught and with those who learnt. I had no hope for any teaching or any learning except upon that condition.,Such personal explanations as these are not out of place when we are reviewing our own course; I have made them often to you before, and you have kindly tolerated them as an old man&rsquo;s twaddle, if it was nothing better. But I did not mean them to drive the subject out of your thoughts in which the interests of all England are involved. I hoped they might, possibly, contain a hint which would make that subject more intelligible. I will endeavour now to consider the force of the phrases which I confessed a difficulty in inter&not; preting. You will see that there was no affectation in
the fear which I expressed that I might put a wrong sense on them.,I. What does the word &lsquo;Secular&rsquo; import? Those who attend the Latin Class&mdash;and many who do not&mdash; will know that it is derived from &lsquo;S&aelig;culum,&rsquo;an age. Those who have read the Samson Agonistes of Milton, either in the English Literature Class or at home, will remember that he speaks of the fabulous Phoenix as a &lsquo;secular bird that lives for aye.&rsquo; The sense of the adjective, however startling at first, is quite intelligible when you consider its etymology. This bird was sup&not; posed to last on through the ages. Nearly opposite to this is the more ordinary sense which connects secular with &lsquo;our&rsquo; age, or the &lsquo;present&rsquo; age. And since Age and World are often confounded&mdash;as for instance, in our translation of the New Testament, now and then I think to the great injury of its sense&mdash;the present age comes to be taken for the present world; &lsquo;secular&rsquo;is supposed to describe all things in the present world, while &lsquo;religious&rsquo; refers to all things which may be hoped or dreaded in a future world. Closely connected with this meaning is an opprobrious one, which you will meet with continually in the writings of earnest Dis&not; senters when they are finding fault with the Clergy of the English Church. They say we are dreadfully &lsquo;secular.&rsquo; Professing to preach of a Kingdom of Heaven, we are occupied, they affirm, mainly with things of the earth; with the acquisition of money or honour, with the advancement of our families. Secu&not; larly they pronounce to be the necessary incident of an Established Church. We owe Dissenters much fur,1&mdash;2
giving us this warning. Whether secularly in the sense of money seeking and money worship is the special sin of the clergy or not, it is undoubtedly the sin of the whole land. It is the sin which the Clergy are most bound by their vows to fight against in their words and their acts ; if they set an example of it they are certainly more to blame than all other men. And this seculari ty has much to do with the subject before us. For the education of the rich is made heart&not; less and unreal by the notion that the accpiisition of money is the great reward of it, and that those are best, not who are raised above the desire of money and slavery to it, but those who have most of it; the education of the poor is hindered and destroyed wherever this secularity prevails, since they are regarded chiefly as instruments for ministering to other men&rsquo;s money cravings ; they learn to covet nothing so much for themselves.,You see it is necessary to examine the different common uses of the word&mdash;and all the uses I have named are very common except the first&mdash;lest we should be entangled by them, and should unawares at&not; tribute a meaning to our neighbours which they would disclaim. Most of the so-called Secularists would dis-&#39; claim the last meaning as wholly alien from their scheme of Education. They would fix, I presume, upon the one which connects secular with the present world. They would say, &lsquo;Whether there is another world or not &lsquo;people may dispute; we know there is this; its con- &lsquo;cerns are very important to us; we may speak to &lsquo; children of them.&rsquo; And if it is objected that thoughts
of the other world have (as for instance among the Hindoos) mingled with every object which men behold in this, they answer &lsquo;No doubt ; that is just what &lsquo;we wish to avoid. This world has been darkened &lsquo; by a religion that fills men&rsquo;s thoughts with fears &lsquo;and speculations about another; so Education has been &lsquo; hindered and made impossible.&rsquo;,I am far from disputing this assertion; I hold it to be true. Religions have sanctioned ignorance, base&not; ness, cruelty; they have, as a Roman poet says, per&not; suaded men into a number of huge and monstrous evils. I am as afraid as any one can be of the effects which superstitions may produce, which they are sure to produce, in turning men from the light, in leading them to choose darkness rather than light. I think the deliverance of men from superstition is one main end of all Education. If the Secularists pursue this end steadily I wish them with all solemnity &lsquo;God speed;&rsquo; for I believe that is a godly object, that is what God&rsquo;s education would do for us.,This word &lsquo;godly&rsquo; is an old Puritan word which I prefer very much, and I hope my dissenting friends prefer, to the vaguer word &lsquo; religious.&rsquo; I shall not hurt their feelings, I shall adopt a phraseology specially belonging to them, if I call their different denominations &lsquo;godly&rsquo; denominations; if I give them credit for ac&not; cepting the words of Scripture in their fullest sense, &lsquo;God is Light, and in Him is no darkness at all.&rsquo; Whatever may be their &lsquo; religious &rsquo; differences, I give them credit for all holding this &lsquo;godly&rsquo; doctrine; for not intending to hold any which is at variance with it.
2 . In saying this I have stumbled on that other word &lsquo; Denominational &rsquo; which I said perplexed me. Why did it perplex me ? There are not the various meanings given to it which are given to the word secu&not; lar, It marks out certain bodies as distinct from each other. But why then am I not to call the secularists a denomination 1 Do they cover the whole land ? Is their opinion universally accepted ? There is a large class of intelligent and respectable people who do not affect to affirm&mdash;or yet probably to deny&mdash;that there is a God who is the source of Light ; they maintain that in education we have nothing to do with Him ; that His existence or non-existence can in no Avise affect the lessons which concern the well-doing or ill-doing of men in this world. Such a body of men exists ; it is entitled in the fullest, freest, manner to proclaim its opinion. If it establishes schools which do the work satisfactorily which they profess to do, the State should give them aid as much as any others. But must they not claim that aid as a denomination 1 Can they pretend, while denominations all holding a creed dif&not; ferent from theirs are spread over the land, to come in under any other title ?,But may not those denominations consent to sink their peculiarities and to teach, as the secularists would have them teach, all things except such as involve any reference to God ? Many persons who have great influence in these denominations, both laymen and preachers, it is said, are willing, even eager, to adopt this arrangement. It is recommended by certain special reasons, which I may consider presently. The general
reasons are those which you will hear so often at public meetings. &#39;What ! you really cannot teach boys to &lsquo; read and write and cast accounts without introducing &#39;some savour of theology into the lessons ? You are &#39; afraid lest mathematics should ruin them unless the &#39; effect of it can be counteracted by a dose of the Bible &#39;and the Catechism? You dare not let them know &lsquo; anything about the structure of their bodies and the &#39; laws of health unless you can slip in something about &lsquo; the state of their souls V All such appeals are no doubt very clever, and sound to those who hear them quite overwhelming. So they would be if they touched the question which is at issue. That question is not w&#39;hether it is desirable to mix little scraps of divinity with lessons on one subject or another ; still less whether there is any fear of imparting any kind of knowledge to any class of persons. I should say the fewer scraps of divinity are mixed with the teaching of reading, writing, arithmetic, mathematics, the laws of health, the better for the most part that teaching will be. I should say there cannot be too much knowledge on any subject imparted to any person. But those godly denominations of which I have spoken appear to hold that God has a direct, a constant, relation with tho boys and girls as well as with the men and women who study these subjects, that He opens their understand&not; ings to take in whatever they receive, that their capa&not; city of knowledge comes from Him. If they do not entertain these opinions, let them say so ; then they may frankly take up their position by the side of the Secularists ; they ought to take it up. But if they do
entertain these opinions when they are in their chapels, can they throw them aside in their schools ? Will not their education lose all its force, all its living energy, if they do ?,Nor is it only their teachers in the schools who will be confused and crippled by such a suppression; only their pupils who will suffer. What will become of all their teaching and preaching at other times ? Are they prepared to say : * These only concern the future &lsquo; world, they have no relation to the doings and thoughts &lsquo; of men in this world &rsquo; ? If they are, I say again, Let them frankly take their place by the side of the Secularists : it is their proper place ; for that is the Secularist doctrine. But I fancied they were be&not; ginning to suspect they had given too much way to this doctrine already. I fancied they were somewhat ashamed of having led their congregations to suppose that the Gospel only concerned what might come to men hereafter ; that they were feeling the necessity of proclaiming God as the Lord of this earth, because they saw that Mammon must be the acknowledged Lord of it if He is not. Adopting the maxim of the Secularists in the schools, they will struggle in vain to reject it elsewhere. So their occupation as godly denominations would seem to be gone.,But there is, they say, a justification for this pro&not; ceeding. &lsquo;You, the clergymen of w&#39;hat&#39;is called the &lsquo; Established Church, have given yourselves airs of &lsquo;superiority which are quite intolerable. You have &lsquo; assumed either to be the chief of all denominations&mdash;,&amp;lt; the one right denomination ; or you have refused that
&lsquo; title altogether. You have boasted that you are the &lsquo; Church. On that ground you have claimed a kind,* of monopoly of Education ; you have assumed that &lsquo; you are the teachers of the land. This conceit of yours &lsquo; must be crushed utterly. Now is the moment for a &lsquo; combination which will effect that object. Something &lsquo; the Dissenters may have to give up ; but what a,* triumph will they win if they should succeed in &lsquo;getting rid of an incubus which has been sitting on &lsquo; them so long ! &rsquo;,These statements, which gave such force to the eloquent speech of Mr Winterbotham, ought not to be treated lightly by any person calling himself a Minister of the English Church. The word &lsquo;Minister&rsquo; must always recai to him words which he professes to regard as very sacred. &lsquo; Let him that is the chief of &lsquo; all be the servant of all.&rsquo; If we have aspired to be chiefs and have forgotten that we are servants, we are condemned out of our own mouths. And no doubt the kind of social position which we have occupied&mdash; our secular advantage&mdash;has tended to foster this temper in us, has given us many opportunities for indulging it. When I speak of us I mean always to include myself ; in fact I know the temptations of others only through myself. I see clergymen in the country working on incomes which a successful trades&not; man would scorn; and, often with little help from the rich proprietors in their neighbourhood, supporting large schools for the poor in their districts. What&not; ever may be their faults, I cannot reckon them among the self-exalted of the earth. I meet with clergymen
in cities and Universities who prize their Christian culture chiefly because it teaches them to claim fellow&not; ship with men as men, not with men as distinguished from each other by certain privileges and possessions. But I do know in my own experience&mdash;I have felt it in my intercourse with you&mdash;how one may belie all the fine words one speaks about brotherhood and humanity by a shyness, awkwardness, constraint, which show how much one is the slave of outward accidents and conventions, even when one makes some little effort to rise above them ; so that I can well understand how persons that have been brought up in a much higher worldly position than I have ever known, may, if they are not on their guard, give just occasion to those complaints of which Mr &Lambda;&Upsilon;ΐ&eta; terhothan! was the interpreter.,Then, in addition to these differences, there is amongst some of us a very keen perception of their ecclesiastical position. They say they are Churchmen, not members of a sect at all. I can enter into this feeling also. I share largely in it. I dread the name Sectarian as much as any Secularist can do. And therefore I can well conceive how galling it is to a Dissenter to be told that he is the member of a Sect, and that we are not members of one. Moreover, the words seem to me unjust. I think he claims to be a member of Christ&rsquo;s Church as I do. I think I am as liable to sink into a Sectarian, and to be only that, as he is. So there are perpetual collisions and heart-burnings, arising out of a claim which nevertheless it seems to me that we cannot any of us give up without losing
what it is good for the sake of the whole land that we should keep.,Then, again, there is the remembrance of past times, when we claimed a right to enforce our belief on all people, to claim them as members of our body, or to punish them for standing aloof from it. &lsquo;You would &lsquo; do the same again,&rsquo; we are told, &lsquo; if you had the oppor- &lsquo; tunity. It is not to any change in you or in your &lsquo; pretensions that we owe immunity from persecution. &lsquo; The progress of civilisation and liberality has robbed &lsquo;you of your power to hurt ; if you had it you would &lsquo;use it as your forefathers did.&rsquo; That is too likely. It is very dangerous, as we have been warned by the highest authority, to say that if we had been in the days of our forefathers we should not have killed the prophets as they did. It always seems to me that, if I had been left to myself, with their power, I might have done just as they did. Nor do I trust liberality or civilisation to keep us or any men from repeating on any scale which is possible for us the same crimes. I thank God, the God and Father of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and not any other deity which is called Civilisation or Liberality,&mdash;and which must I should suppose have much caprice and some cruelty mixed with its benevolence,&mdash;that He has pronounced His everlasting curse against those acts which have been done in His Name; I thank and bless Him that He has taken from us the power to commit them. 1 thank Him that He has written in sunbeams on the page of History, on the experience of our own times, the lesson that persecution may be successful, but only either in
stirring up the faith which it strives to extinguish, or in covering the lands in which it is exercised or feared with unbelief.,All these causes of offence I admit ; woe to us if they have come through us ! But see whether the Dissenters are likely to remove them by the course on which some of them are entering. They say that we are outraging our obligations as Christian men by exalting ourselves on our merely worldly advantages. Therefore they determine that the children in our schools shall hear nothing of Christian obligations, that they shall be only told of what will contribute to their worldly advantages. They think that we are arrogantly refusing to be called a denomination, or are trying to assume the place of chief among the denominations. Therefore they will not suffer the State to humble us by treating us as one of the denominations, by giving all a fair opportunity of proving what they can do for the Education of the land. They think there is in us a disposition to persecute while we profess to be the servants of Him who gave Himself up to His perse&not; cutors that He might set men free. Therefore they would shut the mouths of those who would declare Him to children as their true Lord and King ; they would take away what they hold to be the great pro&not; test against inflicting persecution, the great power for enduring it.,In using this language I am speaking to the Dis&not; senters&mdash;to the members of Christian denominations. But I have confessed a sympathy with the Secularists in their dislike to that word, if it could be got rid of;
a reluctance to reckon myself in a denomination, even when I submit to the necessity that the State should treat me in that character. For in what light do these godly denominations often appear ? It seems to many as if we who call ourselves Churchmen delighted in shewing that we are not Dissenters; as if the great glory of each body of the Dissenters was that they did not belong to some other body or to us. These nega&not; tive religions of ours have&mdash;the Secularists say most truly&mdash;split the country into hostile camps ; have pro&not; duced bitterness, rivalries, suspicions; have interfered grievously with all efforts for the common good. I think so as much as they can. I feel it most keenly as to our Churchmanship. How much that has suffered from our eagerness to prove that we are not Human&not; ists, not Protestant Dissenters, not Secularists, I have no words to express. Our belief is perishing in our eagerness to shew what we do not believe. And where do I find the counteraction of this mischief? You, my friends, who are fathers, may find it out for yourselves without my help. When you teach your children you must speak to them of something which you do believe, not of something which you do not believe. You can only teach them at all on these terms. I honour the Secularists for acting on this prin&not; ciple in their own teaching. I honour them for saying, &lsquo;We believe in Mathematics, we believe in Physiology, &lsquo; we believe in Heading, Writing and Arithmetic; there- &lsquo; fore we will teach them. We do not believe in Theo- &lsquo; logy, therefore we will not teach it.&rsquo; That is brave and manly language; because I believe in Theology, or
rather because I believe in a God who is true and bates lies, I would have every one act on the same maxim. I would tempt no one to teach any thing which he does not in his heart accept. But the more I maintain that doctrine, the more I must also maintain that if we do believe in God the Father Almighty and in Jesus Christ his Son, and in a Holy Spirit who guides into all truth, we should teach what we believe. In using that creed we confess that there is a whole world of things which we do not know. But we confess One who does know and who can and will help us to know. Having that conviction I do not see how we can dare to suppress it any where, especially in the school.,&lsquo;Yes, but the Statesman; what ought he to do ľ I answer he ought to get all the force which he can get, all the force which there is in the land, to struggle against its ignorance and the crimes of which ignorance is the parent. He ought to acknowledge facts, and to hope that if he does acknowledge them, the next gene&not; ration will have better facts to deal with than he has. He ought therefore to claim all the belief of the land&mdash; the belief of English Churchmen, the belief of Pro&not; testant Dissenters, the belief of Komanists, the belief of Secularists&mdash;to conquer the enemies which are de&not; stroying us. He cannot conquer them by Act of Parliament. He cannot stamp with his foot and raise up a body of teachers armed to encounter them. He must take those which are in the land already. He must take them impartially, subject to all the contra&not; dictions which are impairing their efficiency. They will become better and less contentious if he appeals to
the faith that is in them, if he calls that to his aid. They will become worse and more contentious if he requires any of them to stifle their faith, or to keep it for Sundays and holidays, not for the week-day busi&not; ness of the world and the school.,And he ought not&mdash;nor ought you&mdash;to be confused by the words &lsquo; sectarian &rsquo; and &lsquo; unsectarian.&rsquo; Sectarian&not; ism is to me a great abomination, but I cannot get rid of it by accusing other people of it; I cannot become unsectarian by saying that I am so. I know that I must appear sectarian to a Romanist, and that he must appear a sectarian to me, not when we are talking of theology, but when we are talking of history&mdash;on ques&not; tions which must be treated in the school, if it is ever so secular. We shall both be false if we pretend to speak of Wyclifle or Luther in a way which will not hurt each others prejudices. So I must appear a sectarian to many a teacher of my own subject Moral Philosophy, and he must appear a sectarian to me. I may learn much from him&mdash;(I have learnt most perhaps from those with whom I disagree)&mdash;but only so far as I am true to my own convictions, only so far as I avoid all appearance of assenting to conclu&not; sions from which in my heart I revolt.,I have not been pleading in this letter for Mr Forster&rsquo;s Bill. There are many details in it which I am not competent to discuss, which I would leave to the consideration of wiser men. But its general principle of not destroying the forces which exist in the land, of utilizing them to the utmost, seems to me a sound and honest one. If the state muzzles any of us we
become dangerous to it, useless to its subjects. If it gives us free leave to utter our thoughts, to teach what we think we can teach, it will find some good in us all ; it will have a right to call us to account when we fail in doing what we pretend to do. As to the amendment which has been proposed, that we shall be allowed to read a chapter in the Bible every day to the children, it has the simple merit of being equally offensive to those who think lightly of the Bible, and to those who reverence it. &#39; Why should it have this dignity above any other book ? &rsquo; cry the first : &#39; What dignity is it to &#39;treat it as a charm?&rsquo; say the second. &#39;We thought &lsquo;it taught men something of God and of their relation * to Him. If it does, cannot we tell children what we &#39; suppose it teaches them ? When we tell them, we &#39;utter a creed of some kind, we teach a prayer of &#39;some kind, we proclaim a law of some kind. If &lsquo;you take from us this right you had better not per- &#39; mit us to read a book which has been turned into dead &lsquo;letters.&rsquo;,With respect to the further question about using or omitting Catechisms I will speak my mind frankly. I have always prized greatly our Catechism, that which we teach children to prepare them for Confirmation, as an instrument of Education, precisely because it is not a collection of dogmas, because it contains no word about other sects or communions, because it speaks personally and directly to the child about its own rela&not; tion to its Father in heaven and its brethren on earth. I have used it in this sense for thirty-five years. I have never turned it to account against any
Romanist or Protestant Dissenter or Deist or Atheist. But if it is supposed by any of these to be a conten&not; tious separating document, a mere &lsquo;Established Church&rsquo; manual, I would for its own sake and for our sake let it go in schools over which they have any controul ; announcing, however, for the sake of honesty, when we surrender it, that what we have taught our children out of it we shall hold all the same ; that we shall not think the least differently about their relation to God or teach them to think differently ; that the Creeds, the Lord&rsquo;s Prayer, the Ten Commandments, will still express the deepest grounds of our Education as they have done hitherto.,My friends, I do not know how many among you are Churchmen or Dissenters or Secularists. I feel confident that, whatever you are, you will receive my words kindly. I have written them for one class as much as for another. I think we have all prejudices and confusions which beset us, and which we may assist one another in clearing away.,Your sincere friend,,F. D. MAURICE.,CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BT C. J. OLAY, М.Д., AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.