Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
Conditions and advantages: The condition on which local societies will be received into membership with the &quot;Working Men&#39;s Club and Institute Union,&quot; and the advantages to be thereby obtained
CONDITIONS AND ADVANTAGES.,THE,CONDITIONS,ON WHICH,LOCAL SOCIETIES,WILL BE RECEIVED,INTO,MEMBERSHIP,WITH THE,■&ldquo;Working Men&rsquo;s Club and Institute,Union,&rdquo;,AND THE,ADVANTAGES,TO BE THEREBY OBTAINED.,LONDON:,ISSUED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE UNION\,AND MAY BE HAD AT THEIR OFFICE,,ISO, STRAND, W.C.,,OR OF,BELL AND DALDY, 186, FLEET STREET, E.C,{PRICE ONE PENNY.],1863.
LONDON :,PRINTED BY J. LAWRENCE, 2A, NEW-STREET-SQUARE, E.C.
Conditions on which local Societies avili be received into Membership with the &ldquo; Working Men&#39;s Club and Institute Union,&quot; and the A dvantages to be thereby obtained.,1. That the Council be satisfied that the fundamental rules and objects of the Club, or Institute, and its modes of carrying them into effect, are in general accordance with those of the Union, as explained in the prospectus and other papers issued by its authority.,2. That the constitution and management of the Club be such as to give the Council a reasonable assurance that the wants of the working classes of the locality will be mainly attended to.,3. That a Registration Fee of two-and-sixpence be paid upon the admission of the Club into the Union, and, in addition, an Annual Fee of five shillings.,4. That the Committee, or managing body of the Club, engage to furnish the Union with copies of the Rules of this Institution, as often as any alterations may be made therein.,5. The Council reserve the power of removing from their list of associated Societies, any Club or Institute, which is shown, on sufficient evidence, to be no longer fulfilling the purposes for which it was established, or to be otherwise acting at variance with the objects and spirit of the Union.,I. The Council will be prepared, from time to time, to assist the affiliated Local Societies by grants or loans of money, books, diagrams apparatus, &amp;amp;c., according to the claims of the Society, and to such extent as the state of their funds will allow. They also propose establishing Circulating Libraries for the various districts, and to assist in the purchase of books, &amp;amp;c., at reduced prices.,2. Arrangements will be made to assist the Local Societies to obtain Lecturers and Teachers, whether voluntary or paid, by periodical issue of lists and recommendations of subjects and of lecturers ; also by grants
of money, in special cases, to aid a number of clubs in a district t&ouml; engage such Lecturer or Teacher, for limited periods.,3. The Council and Officers of the Union will be at all times prepared to assist the affiliated Societies by the circulation of Papers bearing upon Workmen&rsquo;s Clubs, or on questions of interest to working men ; by giving information or advice on any points brought before their notice ; and by sending deputations or agents to assist in organizing or carrying on the various plans of usefulness contemplated by the central or the Local Society. District Secretaries will in due time be appointed.,4. (Quarterly or half-yearly District Conferences will beheld forthe dis&not; cussion of subjects relating to the W. M. C. and Inst. Union, and to the establishment and conduct of Working Men&rsquo;s Societies ; also for the reading and discussion of papers on subjects relating to the social, mental, and moral well-being of working men generally. The affiliated Societies in each district will be entitled to send delegates to such con&not; ferences, and these will be entitled to appoint a delegate to attend an Annual General Conference for the same objects, to be held in various large towns in succession. The expenses of the delegates to the District Conference might be defrayed by an annual district contribu&not; tion, and to the Annual General Conference, probably, by the Central Society. After the first year or two, no member should be eligible as a delegate until he has served on the Committee, or filled some office of trust in the Local Society.,5. An Annual Report or Register will be published by the Union, which will embody an account of the operations of every Society in alliance with it. A copy of such Report will be sent to every Local Society.,6. Generally, the union of a large number of Local Societies will be of service to each individual Society, by affording the stimulus de&not; rived from the fact of co-operation in a common object ; and by plac&not; ing it in a better position to meet any difficulties which may occur than could be secured by isolated efforts. Advice or mediation if required, and the benefit of experience drawn from a large number of similar societies, will always be at the service of affiliated clubs. But the council will scrupulously abstain from any interference with the
local management of such clubs as long as their fundamental rules, and the objects of the Union, are observed, except of course if legitimately invited to friendly arbitration.,One collateral but highly important benefit resulting from the ap&not; pointment of Delegates to the District and General Conferences will be the distinction thereby conferred on men who, from having well served their Club, and from their general intelligence and respectabi&not; lity, deserve to be brought prominently forward ; it being always of primary importance for any community that there should be ample facilities for its ablest and worthiest members being recognised and employed. As Degrees are given by Universities for merit in intellec&not; tual proficiency, and honours granted for military, naval, and civic services to the State ; and as it is no less expedient than right to dis&not; tinguish other kinds of merit and service, especially among the Work&not; ing Classes at the present day,&mdash;so the above simple and informal dis&not; tinctions (rendered more or less permanent and public by registered lists), will promote an important object in addition to the direct benefit to be obtained by the proposed Conferences. This object is obtained in some Friendly Societies, by the &ldquo;Dispensation Board,&quot; which forms an honourable record of those who have worthily filled offices of responsibility and distinction in the Society.,Another aim of the Union will be to provide a species of Scholar&not; ship or Exhibition to some &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&rsquo;s&lt;/span&gt; or other &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt;, for deserving youths who have distinguished themselves as students, or by gratuitous services of any kind, in their Local Clubs. Possibly, this plan may result in the establishment of a Central Industrial &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt; for &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&lt;/span&gt;, in which they could work part of their time at then own trade and part at the studies of the College, returning after three or four years to an ordinary working man&rsquo;s life with increased power both to perform its duties efficiently and to assist in improving the condition of their fellow-workmen. There are various cases of men working half their time only at a particular trade&mdash; e.g., postmen in country towns and villages. Of course, they could only be em&not; ployed upon jobs not requiring immediate despatch, but in some shops and in several trades employers are glad to have men occasionally,
who do not require a full week&rsquo;s work throughout the year.* The power of appointing to these Scholarships should be shared between the Local Society and the Council of the Union, or the Committee of the Club might recommend a certain number from which the Council should select.,In like manner, Fellowships, which were originally founded chiefly to promote that which their name imports, might be again estab&not; lished in connection either with such a College or with Local Clubs (perhaps with District Unions), to reward merit not merely of an intellectual character, and in a way that should promote that brotherly helpfulness and kindly fellowship which it is a chief object of this Union to encourage. Power of appointment might be shared between the District Conferences and the Council of the Union.,There is a great deal of hardship, and, at the same time, of tempta&not; tion to drinking, caused by the present system of the Register of men wanting employment being kept by landlords of public-houses. The first called off that register are, naturally, though unjustly, not always those first on the list, but too often those of the publican&rsquo;s best cus&not; tomers ; and, under any circumstances, men going to the House of Call, either to have their names put down, or to inquire the result, must generally spend something for &ldquo; the good of the house.&rdquo; It is well knownhow often &ldquo;the pint brings on the gallon.&rdquo; The foreman or captain of a shop and the landlord sometimes play into one another&rsquo;s hands in this matter. But wherever a Working Men&rsquo;s Club exists, this register of persons needing employment, as well as a list of masters seeking for men, may be kept there instead of at a public-house. Then, as these Clubs extend over the country, and become affiliated to the Central Society and united with each other, the Registers would evidently serve a variety of useful purposes, and aid considerably in promoting a free circulation of labour. Of course, any such organiza&not; tion would be kept entirely distinct from that of 1 rades Unions. A move has already been made in this direction in Liverpool, among the tailors, and for trades generally at Notting-hill, Southampton, Leeds,,* In the very common case of piece-work there would seldom be any diffi&not; culty in a young man&rsquo;s giving hall his time to his trade and half to study.
and various other places.* Young men, coming up from the country to large towns for work, of course go straight to a House of Cal1 e They engage a single room for a lodging in the neighbourhood, and if they want society they will rarely find it where they lodge, but must seek it in the public-house. This will naturally be the one where the register is kept, to which they went on their first arrival, and which is probably frequented by many of their shop-mates. But if the register were kept at a Working Men&rsquo;s Club, and if they carried with them a friendly introduction to the officers and members of that Club, their first start on a new period of life would be made under healthy and improving influences, instead of under those which are too generally injurious in themselves, and leading often to even more mischievous results. A list of respectable lodgings might also be kept at the Club-house.,As the Local Societies are designed, among other important objects, to promote rational recreation and sociable entertainments, so this should be one of the beneficial results of a Union of Clubs. District Festivals may, by and bye, be held on suitable occasions, and the Local Societies be invited to attend, or, at all events, to send represen&not; tatives. At sufficient intervals, a national gathering, similar to those of the Welsh Eisteddfods, might be advantageously held. At all these assemblies there should be musical and artistic performances of various kinds, and prizes given, instead of the mere eating and drink&not; ing, which at present constitutes the chief object of many festive assemblies, or the only amusement provided at the annual gathering of most Friendly and Trade Societies. The occasion might also be taken for conferring any other honours which the District or Central Union might desire to bestow. Athletic sports would often form a part of the programme.,An interchange of gratuitous lecturers, of diagrams, scientific appa&not; ratus, books, dissolving views, the attendance of singing and glee classes at neighbouring tea-meetings, joint excursions, See., Sec., would of course, be among the objects and advantages of the proposed,* This paragraph is reprinted from the paper of &lsquo;&lsquo;Hints and Suggestions, &amp;amp;c. issued by the Council, on account of its bearing upon the general organizations of the Clubs in one Union.
Union. District exhibitions also of works of art, of models, objects of interest connected with the geological, botanical, antiquarian and other characteristic features of the district, would in due time grow out of this association of working men&rsquo;s societies, and furnish during many intervening months or years additional interest for country walks or class-room labours.,Membership of one Club would be a passport to friendly recogni&not; tion in other Clubs, and for a limited period to all their privileges (except the right of voting), without payment.,In conclusion, as Working Men&#39;s Friendly Societies and Trades&rsquo; Unions are organised to promote the pecuniary well-being of their members, so this union of Working Men&rsquo;s Clubs, equally with the Clubs themselves, is being organised to promote the mental and moral welfare of the members, as well as indirectly thus to aid their social improvement. And, as we see that those Friendly Societies and Trades&rsquo; Unions have done much to educate \vorking men, and to raise them from a state of stupid improvidence and indifference, or of mere animal existence, even when badly managed or aiming at hurtful ends, so we may be well assured of the immense benefit that may accrue to working men from judicious and friendly organisation for worthy and elevating purposes. It is always of great value for the cultivation of men&rsquo;s intellectual and moral nature to unite them in organised arrangements, so long as their individual life and character are duly respected. But if both the means and the ends of such organic life are of a wise and noble character, leading up, as all things wise and noble must do, to the highest ends for which men are created, there are no limits to the beneficent results which may gradually be obtained.,Just published, price Twopence,,HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS for the FORMATION AND MANAGEMENT OF WORKING MEN&rsquo;S CLUBS AND INSTI&not; TUTES.,London: Bell and Daldy, 186, Fleet-street.