Disclaimer: This file is generated using OCR (optical character recognition) and/or HTR (handwritten text recognition), which are technologies that convert images of text into text. While the technologies are good at deciphering legible text, there are limitations and some text may not have been extracted correctly.
Administrative reform, and its connexion with working men&#39;s colleges
Pre sented by tb e Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths, ( 903 .
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM, AND ITS CONNEXION WITH &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MEN&rsquo;S&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGES&lt;/span&gt;. % \x |1Ькш BY THE REV. F. &Uuml;. MAURICE.,PUBLISHED AT THE REQUEST OF THE STUDENTS OF THE &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MEN&rsquo;S&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGE&lt;/span&gt;, 31, RED LION SQUARE.,ffiamlm&#39;&ugrave;gc : MACMILLAN &amp;amp; CO. LONDON : BELL &amp;amp; DALDY, 186, FLEET STREET. 1855.
This Address was delivered by the Principal of the Working Meris College , at a Meeting of the Members , held May 31 ,,1855 .
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM.,My Friends, &mdash; I have been giving lectures during the last term upon the politics of the 16th century. Some of my colleagues have said to me, &ldquo; Why not rather lecture on the politics of the 19th*? &rdquo; I have told my class the reasons of my choice ; I shall not repeat them here. I will simply tell you that it is not because I am afraid of the present that I have been dwelling upon the past, but because I wish to illustrate the present by the past. I am going to prove that this is the case now. If I have been discoursing to a few members of the College about the times of Henry VIII., I will speak to you who represent the whole of it, to my fellow-teachers as well as my fellow-learners, about the subject which is most occupying us in the time of Queen Victoria. All of us have read a little of what is written in the newspapers, a little of what has been said at public meetings, on the question of Administrative Reform. We have agreed, I suppose, all of us, that there is something very wrong which calls for this reform. We have asked ourselves whether we could do anything to promote it. Most likely some of us have been asked by persons who are taking part in the new League, whether we would not join with them. My own strong conviction is that we may do something
for this object, that our College may do something for it. I will go further. This cry for Administrative Reform and our College have begun nearly at the same time. I believe the same necessities have called forth both, and I believe we shall not understand the purposes for which we exist tho&not; roughly till we understand what this cry means, and how it is to be satisfied. I will tell you presently why I think so. But we are bound, first of all, to hear what those say who have most occupied themselves with this controversy hitherto. You of the working class, we of the professional class, may consider ourselves as listeners in the trial which is going on between the merchants, manufacturers, tradesmen of England on the one side, and the aristocracy of England on the other. We have a right to be listeners; I am not sure that we have a right to be judges. We are too much concerned in the issue to take that office, and I am afraid it may turn out that we are, or some of us are, criminals. First, let us ask what the plaintiffs, our friends of the trading class, have to allege. They say that if the same common sense and knowledge of business which they exer&not; cise in managing their shops, their factories, their railway- companies, were employed in directing the affairs of this great country, we should not have to complain of our armies wanting food, or medicine, or the means of transport. They say that all these calamities have arisen because the skill and foresight which they are exhibiting every day and hour in lesser things, are not made available for the greater. They say that people in our country take offices, not because they have proved that they are competent to hold them, but because they have wdiat are called good connexions and a good ancestry. All such titles to respect and to official dignity, they say, should be forgotten and discarded. We must look for the readiest, cleverest, handiest men. When we find them, we must set them to govern us. Only such
can govern ns for onr profit. This is the case on one side. What has the defendant to produce on his &Igrave; He affirms that there are many different standards of merit ; that every one has his own opinion of what merit is ; that there is no way of finding out exactly who the right man is for any particular place; that when we cast off those who succeed because they have good family and interest, we get in exchange a set of needy self-seeking adventurers, who climb up to high places upon their hands and knees, and who, when they reach them, give themselves much greater airs, and do not prove more faithful or honest, than those who are born to greatness. I am not much of an advocate, though I live a good deal among lawyers, and perhaps I have not stated the argument on either side as it ought to be stated. But I have tried to do justice to each, and you will be able to fill up my omissions from your own memories and imaginations. As a plebeian, all my sympathies would be with the first, with those who denounce birth and family, declaring them to be very insignificant and contemptible things. Moreover, I am bound to acknowledge that our merchants and manufacturers have the merit which they boast of. They do often display wonderful skill and foresight in their enterprises ; they have great machines, and work great powers of nature; and such machines cannot be moved, and such powers of nature cannot be worked, except in an orderly, silent manner. An engine cannot be stopped because we are lazy, or want a holiday. The winds and the waves will not change their course because we make plausible and eloquent speeches to induce them to do so. This order and this silence are amazing gifts. I do not know how to reverence them enough. But, my friends, plebeian as I am, I cannot and dare not deny that the sense of birth, and family, and kindred is a
very precious thing to a man and to a nation. I do not know a more striking or beautiful spectacle than that which I have seen among Americans&mdash;ay, and not Whig, but democratical Americans&mdash;who come over to this country, and pore over the tombs in churchyards, and grope amidst county records, in hopes of discovering some ancestor of their own name, the parent of some early settler in the States, with whom they may claim fellowship, and feel that time has not destroyed the link which binds them to the old days and the old soil. I call this a beautiful sight ; not meaning the word beautiful in any sentimental sense. I welcome this as a sign that these Americans are good, earnest patriots. I believe they are not glorifying themselves, or what belongs peculiarly to them, but that they will go back to be brave and useful citizens of their land, to teach it that it has great memories as well as great possessions ; that its memories are some of its noblest possessions ; that to have plenty of oil and wine, and the fruits of the earth, that to be making money, is not the great end for which the citizen of a free republic is to live ; that it cannot preserve its freedom unless those who guide it and teach it are claiming and seeking altogether different treasures from these. My friends, America wants that faith, and so does England. It is not true that the family feeling, the reverence for ancestry, is too strong among us. It is not half strong enough. It is not true that the members of our aristocracy ought to abandon it. They ought to cherish it and cultivate it in themselves. We ought, if we could, to cherish it and sustain it in them. It would preserve them from a multitude of low, degrading habits&mdash;from the indolence, indifference, worship of fashion, worship of money, which we impute to them. Instead of wishing to rob them of it, we should claim it for ourselves ; we should try to assert every noble deed and thought of other days as the deed and thought of our forefathers, in
which we have an hereditary and a personal interest. It is not safe for ns, for yon or for me, to let onr merchants, and manufacturers, and tradesmen disparage this family feeling, and stand upon the mere skill and cleverness which they have shown in the acquisition or the preservation of fortune. It is not safe. For so we lose the benefit of those great powers which God has endowed them with ; so we teach them to regard their faculty of managing machines as if it were a faculty for ruling and directing men ; so we turn them into our tyrants and oppressors ; so we lead them to sink their own manhood in the worship of gold; so we make those who might be great helpers of the whole community into the corrupters of it. My friends, I trace the effects of this corruption, as well as of other and equally deadly influences, in the arguments by which members of the upper class have endeavoured to ward off the attacks upon them, and to make a counter-attack upon their opponents. If there was any reverence for the names and the deeds of their forefathers, how could they dare to talk of merit as being an accidental thing which is determined by no standard, which is merely ascertained by opinion ? Whence has that accursed doctrine proceeded У Whither is it tending У It proceeds from an unbelief in a righteous order in the world. It has its root in Atheism. It tends to reduce everything to chance. &ldquo; So long as we can hold our possessions, so long as we can keep opinion on our side, so long merit and the right to power are with us. To-morrow we may lose them, and then it will be a scramble or a scuffle to ascertain where the might is that makes right.&rdquo; And this is to be the creed and the defence of those whose fathers won all which they did not obtain through wrong and robbery, by the faith that there is a justice which will defend the weakest against the strongest, which will enable all in whom worth is, by one means or another, to prove
that worth and to make it effectual! That has been the conviction of every right and brave man; upon that our country has stood in all its battles with the great despotisms of the earth. To abandon it is to abandon everything that is dear and precious to us, to make ourselves and our children the sport of every merciless tyrant who can at least show that he has a strength which opinion did not give him. And I must say, my friends, that the language is scarcely less mischievous which the same persons use in denouncing adventurers. Why, some of the truest and most useful men in the world have been adventurers ! Christopher Columbus was an adventurer. Edmund Burke was an adventurer. James Brooke is an adventurer. Every one of their own ancestors was an adventurer. What is a man good for who can venture nothing? What is he good for if he cannot venture everything except his conscience ? The people that they speak of, the people who climb to fortune and place by low and grovelling arts, adventure their conscience, because it is the thing they care the least for, and scarcely anything but that. To be sure, we ought to despise and hate all such. But why ? Because the ends which they seek are so poor ; because the venture which they make is so contemptible. A gambler, no doubt, is detestable whether he stakes little or much. But all, whether born in high places or low, will be gamblers, and therefore will be bad administrators, if they do not learn to respect themselves, to respect their fellow- men, and to fear God. Now, my friends, this is the lesson which we of the professional class&mdash;we clergymen, physicians, lawyers, artists &mdash;are especially sent into the world to teach. This is the truth which we are to bear witness of to the aristocratical class, to the trading class, to you of the working class, to the whole country. Our business is not first of all with things, but with men&mdash;not with things which can be weighed or
measured, but with health of mind and health of body, with truth, with justice, with beauty, with things which cannot be gotten for gold. We have talked of these professions of ours as honourable &mdash;we have said that they were not trades; what did we mean ? That man is higher than the things which he uses ; that the treasures which he cannot see and handle are greater treasures and more universal than those which he can ; that services or administrations are great and noble, not in proportion as they can be tried by a money standard, but in proportion as they cannot. I say, my friends, if we have any respect for our offices, if we fulfil the pledges which we made when we took them upon us, we are bound to maintain these doctrines, and to make our practice correspond with them. I do not think we have done so. I do not think we have borne this witness faithfully to the world. Therefore it is that I said that we had not clean hands enough to be judges of others; that I feared we were greater sinners than they. It is the tendency of us all to think more of what we possess, and what we get, than of what we are. We have yielded to that tendency, we who exist to counteract it. Because money rewards are attached to our different callings, because it is for the good of the community that men who work for it should feel that it recognises their work, and that it wishes them to work freely, therefore we have made money the measure and standard of our professional services, therefore we have gone very near to reduce them into trades by the temper and spirit in which we have conducted them ; all the time that we have given ourselves airs, and pretended that the honourable tradesman was less honourable than we. So honour has got a new name and definition. It is con&not; nected with thoughts of position, of circumstances, of wealth, instead of being, as it ought to be, just that which lifts us above these considerations, just that which enables us to
pursue a higher end. What is the consequence? We teach the aristocracy to glorify themselves on the accidents of their position, not on their nobleness, or even the nobleness of their fathers; we teach them to think that they can administer the aifairs of the world while they are the slaves of the world; we teach them to think that they can govern men without reverencing men or possessing manhood. We teach the middle-class to make the acquisition of money the object of their lives, and to value all skill, talent, strength, just so far as they are serviceable for that object. Do not think, my friends, that we can commit such crimes without paying the penalty of them. We pay it in kind. Our divinity, our science, our law, our art become impoverished; our own souls become impoverished. We take our standards from those whom we ought to guide. The aristocratical patron determines what divinity is fit for the drawing-room table, what pictures are fittest to hang round its walls ; the trades&not; man demands the divinity, or the physic, or the law, which shall most accord with the notions of profit and loss that belong to the counting-house. I do not think it signifies to which class we devote ourselves. In either case we unfit ourselves to do the good which we are meant to do to that class, because we have adopted its maxims, and reduced our&not; selves to its level. You will not understand me to speak as if I did not believe and know that there is a noble spirit struggling in the professional men of England against this tendency and this degradation&mdash;as if I did not see it and was not ashamed and delighted too by the signs of it in lawyers, and physicians, and artists, and in the members of my own profession, every day. If I did not think and believe this, I should be silent altogether : we must give up our country as lost. It is because there are all these signs of good among us, of a brave and a right heart, because they are
coming forth in all orders and in all directions, in the closet, in the battle-field, even one sometimes hopes in the Senate &mdash;it is therefore that we should make all exertions to protect ourselves against the evil which is so threatening, to nourish the good which is maintaining so terrible and often so unequal a fight. Now, having asked myself as a clergyman what it behoved me to do that I might resist the base, cowardly, money-worshipping, place-seeking tendencies which I find in myself, and which I know will prevail over me, and make everything I speak and do a lie unless I struggle with them, I have come to this conclusion, that of all outward means none would be more effectual than these two. First, that I should claim fellowship with all my brethren of other professions who are feeling the same difficulties and trying to vanquish them; that I should try, if possible, that we may not be so isolated as we have been in our different callings, but may understand each other and work together. The second is, that we should claim alliance with you, the working-men of England; that we should come to you, not to court or flatter you, not to set up your judgments as our standard, any more than we set up the judgments of the aristocratical or of the trading class; but to meet you as those who have a common interest in asserting that which is best, and highest, and most human against that which is merely artificial and exclusive; to meet you as those who want something which we can give, and who can give us back far more in exchange for it by making us realise the value of our own possessions, by making us understand that they are not ours except as they are the possessions of you and of all men. This is the purpose of our College. This is, I believe, what we have all understood by it. We have never thought that we were conferring a gift upon you. It is all fair barter&mdash;the reciprocity which trade aims at, but can seldom
obtain. If we succeed in helping you, we succeed in maintaining our own position and dignity. If you help us, it is by vindicating for your own class, as well as for your ownselves, the position to which you are entitled as citizens of England, as men made in the image of God. Now, of course, ours is a very small beginning. We have always said that it was. We have always expressed a hope that others would enter into the same field, and would work in it far better and more successfully than we are doing. There are some indications that these hopes may be fulfilled. In the manufacturing towns of England, in the University towns of England, I hear of men who are entering upon our course, and who may soon outstrip us. They are just the kind of men one wishes to see engaged in such a work. They are professional men, and they are tradesmen, uniting together and appealing to the sympathies of the working- class, solemnly declaring that they look upon manual labour as no hindrance to thought and study, solemnly proclaiming that they look upon their own professions and trades as administrations committed to them by God for the use of His creatures. This, my friends, I look upon as a league, a solemn league and covenant, for the promotion of Administrative Reform. I dare not pretend that I expect much from other leagues&mdash;from leagues which aim at the putting down of one class and at the establishment of mother in its place. If they bring any abuses to light, if they offer any hints for the correction of them, let us accept the service with all gratitude. There have been leagues before now which have effected considerable objects. But when they had been effected, we did not find that those who were most active in them had a particularly elevated conception of what was due to their fellow-citizens generally. We heard them using the very maxims which they had denounced
landlords for using&mdash;maintaining that every man had a right to do what he would with his own. Reformation, my friends, must have a deeper ground than the battle of the self-interest of one order of the community against that of another. Let us begin with an acknowledgment of the evils which we have all committed ; of the little reverence we have had for each other ; of the little sense we have had of the great powers which have been put into all our hands, and which we have allowed to go to waste, while we have been complaining that other powers have been withheld from us. What a difference would it have made in the character of our Parliament, in the condition of our country, in the condition of every town and village among us, if those who had votes in elections had believed that they were answerable to God for that power, and had not suffered themselves to be betrayed by false words because their own hearts were false ; had not sent up men greedy and covetous of preferment, because they were covetous of it themselves ! Let us seek, each of us in his own heart, that this evil may be set to rights. We shall see what a difference it makes ; we shall see how much less we are betrayed by plausibilities *&mdash;how much more of honesty and straightforwardness there will be in those that govern, because those who are governed have such qualities, and cherish them in themselves. I do trust and believe that in every one of our classes in this College we are doing something to promote the growth of these qualities &mdash; something to substitute clear, sound, manly thought, for confused, hazy, insincere notions. I trust, at the same time, we are cultivating those practical powers which will enable our pupils to serve their country in some sphere, whatever it may be. If X said we were training you to supplant those who rule you now, and to take their places, I should be a quack and an impostor. I should be holding out promises which would probably
disappoint you at last, which in the meantime would fill your hearts and heads with the vanity which is most fatal to the attainment of sound wisdom and real power. I say to you, Set a higher end than this before you. Aim at fellowship with the best and noblest men that your country has produced&mdash;with the men who worked for her, starved for her, died for her. They might, or might not, be called administrators while they were here. They were the great and efficient administrators. They did the good and enduring works which depended on no accidents, of which ages cannot abolish the benefit. If we are like-minded with them, we need not haggle for the prizes which work brings with it to those who desire them, but which may also be bestowed upon idleness and worthlessness. The work itself will be a high blessing and a reward : we shall thank God for permitting us to engage in it ; we shall be sure that He will make it turn out to greater good than we can ever see or dream of. We may be sure that He will give us higher works when we are fitted to fulfil them.,NOTE.,The following Circular was issued nearly a year ago :&mdash; &ldquo;&lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt; for &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&lt;/span&gt;, 31, Red Lion Square. &ldquo; The Working Men of England are trying, from various motives and in various ways, to educate themselves. Some of them hope that their class may obtain greater influence in the Legislature. They desire that it should qualify it self for that posi&not; tion by the study of Laws and of History. Some of them think that there are many maxims of Morality current among us which tend to divide and to degrade them. They wish to find out the true principle which binds men together and shows them what objects they are to live for. Some are impressed strongly with the mischiefs that come to them from their ignorance of the causes which produce disease, and of the best means of securing health. Some wish to understand better the Machinery with which they are working. Some feel what a blessing it would be to them if they
could use their voices in Singing and their hands in Drawing. Some are puzzled with a number of doubts about the world within them and without them, which they dare not stifle, and through which they long to see their way. &ldquo;Working Men have, therefore, established Debating Societies and Societies for Mutual Instruction among themselves; or they have profited by the Mechanics&rsquo; In&not; stitutes and Evening Classes, which others have established for them. Of late, in Sheffield, (and we believe also in Nottingham,) some of them have set up a People&rsquo;s College, where they hope for more thorough instruction than they can get by either merely talking together, or by merely attending lectures on miscellaneous subjects. &ldquo; This thought, it seems to us, is very valuable. The name College is an old and venerable one. It implies a Society for fellow-work, a Society of which teachers and learners are equally members, a Society in which men are not held together by the bond of buying and selling, a Society in which they meet not as belonging to a class or a caste, hut as having a common life which God has given them and which He will cultivate in them. &ldquo; The hint which our friends in the North have given us must he good for us in London, though we should use it in our own way, and not slavishly copy their plans. Some of us who belong to Professions, as Lawyers, Physicians, Ministers of the Gospel, Artists, Schoolmasters, have thought that we might fulfil our own duties far better, and understand better how they hear upon each other, if we could come into closer intercourse with the Working Men,&mdash;if we could bring them into a College with us, if we could spend some of our evenings in helping them to set their thoughts in order on the subjects in which they are most interested, and to gain information on points about which they feel ignorant. &ldquo;Such Colleges we wish to see established in every great Town of England,&mdash;at least half-a-dozen of them in London. Ours is only a beginning. It is meant espe&not; cially for the North of London. We have taken a house,&mdash;31, Red Lion Square ,&mdash; which we think will he convenient for those who work in that neighbourhood. &ldquo; Our College consists of a Principal, a Council of Teachers, and Students. &ldquo; The government and management of the affairs of the College is vested in the Principal and Council of Teachers, with a casting vote in the Principal. &ldquo; In case of a vacancy the Principal is elected by the Council of Teachers, and Teachers are elected by the Council of Teachers and the Principal. &ldquo; Any Working Man above sixteen years of age who can read and write, and knows the first four rules of Arithmetic, is eligible as a Student. &ldquo; The College is established especially for Manual Workers ; but we shall refuse no one who is not ashamed to be called a Working Man, to whatever class he may belong. Possibly very plain gowns may he provided to be worn in the classes, both by Teachers and Scholars, as a sign that they all belong to the same Society, and for the convenience of men coming in from their work. &ldquo;We desire to he in communication with Adult Schools which may prepare any who have not at present the necessary qualifications to be Students of the College. &ldquo;We desire, also, to he in communication with the existing Universities, which, we hope, will receive persons coming with Certificates from our College as readily as from any other, and will grant our Students Degrees, provided they go through the necessary Examinations. How the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, or London, may he disposed to accomplish this object, we cannot, of course, foresee ; hut we are confident that no fees will hinder Working Men from having all the advantages which their fellow-countrymen possess.
&ldquo;Though the education which we propose is especially intended for Men who have had some experience of the world and are taking part in its business, we hope ulti&not; mately to provide teaching both for their Wives and Children. &ldquo; We hope to see the time when every Factory and Shop will make provision for the instruction of its workers in the course of the day; but at present our teaching must necessarily be confined to the evenings.&rdquo; These intentions have been carried out, and the &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Working&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;Men&rsquo;s&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;College&lt;/span&gt; is now in active operation. There are four periods of instruction, or Terms, in each year. The first extends from the end of October to the week before Christmas; the second, from the 9th of January to the 13th of March ; the third, from the 26th of March to the 26th of May ; the fourth, from the 4th of June to the 30th of July. During the remainder of the year there will be only occasional classes. The instruction is carried on by lessons rather than lectures, much time each evening being spent in asking and answering questions. The Entrance Fee to the College is 2s. 6c?. ; for each course occupying one hour a week, 2s. 6cl. ; for each course occupying two hours a week, 4s. There is a Library, in which Members may study every evening, except Sunday, from 7 till 10. A programme is published before the beginning of each Term of the lessons for that term. The subjects required for entrance to the College, viz. reading, writing, and the first four rules of Arithmetic, are taught in an Adult School under the superintendence of the Council, at the Hall of Asso&not; ciation, 34, Castle Street, Oxford Street. This School is open every evening in the week except Saturday and Sunday from 8 till 10 o&rsquo;clock, at the charge of 6d. a week.,R. CLAY, PKINTER, BREAD STREET HILL.
&lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;WORKING&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;MEN&lt;/span&gt; S &lt;span class=&quot;hitHighlite&quot;&gt;COLLEGE&lt;/span&gt;, 31, RED LION SQUARE.,PRINCIPAL. REV. F. D. MAURICE, M.A. Chaplain of Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn. COUNCIL OF TEACHERS.,A. Bailey, Esq. M.A. Student Ch.Ch. Oxf. Rev. J.S. Brewer, m.a. Queen&rsquo;s Coll. Ox. Rev. J.Ll. Davies, m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. Rev. C. U. Dasent, m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. Lowes Dickenson, Esq. Painter. M.G. Duff, Esq. m.a. BalliolColl. Oxf. F.J.Furnivall, Esq.M.A.Trin. Hall,Cam. Rev. H. J. Hose, m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. Thos. Hughes, Esq. в. a. Oriel Coll. Oxf. M. H. Irving, Esq. r / Balliol Coll. Oxf. M. Jourdain, Advocate, of Limoges. R. B.Litchfield, Esq. в. a. Trin. College, Cambridge. ( Treasurer. ) C. B. Locock, Esq. m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. J. M. Ludlow, Esq. Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn.,V. Lushington, Esq. Trin. Coll. Camlı. N.S. Maskelyne, Esq. m.a. Wad. Coll.Ox. Rev. J. Mitchell, m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. Alexander Munro, Esq. Sculptor. E. V. Neale, Esq. m.a. Oriel. Coll. Oxf. C. H. Pearson, Esq. m.a. Oriel. Coll. Oxf. F. C. Penrose, Esq. m.a. Mag. Coll. Cam. Dante G. Rossetti, Esq. Painter. J. Ruskin, Esq. m.a. Christ Church, Oxf. F. Stephen, Esq. m.a. TrinityColl. Camb. М. A. Tal andier, Licentiate of Paris Univ. C. R. Walsh, Esq. m.r.c.s. H.W.Watson, Esq. m.a. Trin. Coll. Camb. J. Westlake, Esq. M.A. Trin. Coll. Camb. Thomas Woolner, Esq. Sculptor.,The following is the axrangement of Studies for the Fourth Term, from Monday, June 4, to Saturday, July 28, 1855:&mdash;,time. Sunday . . . Р.М. &mdash;10. Monday. . . 7 i &mdash;10. it 8- - 9. 1 1 8&mdash; 9. )l 9-10. Tuesday . . 7&Igrave;-H. tt 4~4- .. 8&mdash; 9. tt 8- - 9. it 9&mdash;10. Wednesday. 8&mdash; 9. &amp;gt;&raquo; 8&mdash;10. tt 9&mdash;10. Thursday . 9&mdash;10. . 7&mdash; 9. It 8&mdash; 9. tt 8&mdash; 9. tt 9&mdash;10. ft 8&mdash;10. ft 9&mdash;10. &bdquo; 9&mdash;10. Triday . , . 8&mdash; 9. &amp;gt;&amp;gt; 8&mdash;10. &bdquo; 8&mdash;10. ft 9&mdash;10. Saturday . . 8&mdash; 9. tt 8&mdash;10. tt 9&mdash;10.,SUBJECT. TEACHER. The Gospel of St. John. The Principal. Drawing (The Figure,&mdash;after Nature and Casts from Nature.) ..&middot;.... Mr. Rossetti. Latin (Sectioni, Virgil&rsquo;s Eclogues.) . . .Mr. Irving. TheStructure and&#39;Functions of the Human Body. Mr. Walsh. Latin (Section 2, Grammar and Translation.) Mr. Irving. Modelling (after Nature and Casts from Nature.) Mr. Woolner P olitical Economy (Book I. of J. S. Mill&rsquo;s &ldquo; Principles .&rdquo;) .Mr. Neale. French (Section 1, Reading, Dictation, Translation.) . М. Tal andier. Latin (Section 3, Grammar.) ..... Mr. Furnivall. English Grammar (Section 2.) . Mr. Furnivall. Physical Geography (Rivers and Lakes, Seas, Winds, Rains.) .Mr. Grant Duff. Algebra (Section 2, from Quadratic Equations.) Mr. Litchfield. Politics (The Sixteenth Century.) .... The Principal. The Law of Societies and Private Corporations. Mr. Hughes. Drawing (Elementary and Landscape.) Mr. Ruskin and Mb. Dickinson. English Grammar (Section 1.).Mr. Furnivall. French (Section 2, Grammar.) . M. Jourdain. Structure and Derivations of English Words. Mr. Furnivall. Geometry (Section 1, Euclid, from Prop. 1, Book 4.) Mr. Watson. Geometry (Section 2, Euclid, from Prop. 1, Book 2.) Mr. Hose. English (Elementary, for Foreigners only.) Mr. Ludlow.,French. (Section 1 .). M. Talandier. Geometry ( Section 3, Euclid, from Prop. 25, Book 1.) Mr. Locoćk- Modelling (after Nature, and Casts from Nature.) Mr. Munro. The Poets of England : Shakespeare. . . The Principal. The History and Geography of England . Mr. Brewer.- Algebra (Section 1, from Chapter xii. Part 1 of Col nso&rsquo;s Treatise.) Mr. Westlake. French (Section 2, Grammar.) M. Jourdain,
WORKS BY THE REV. F. D. MAURICE.,LEARNING AND WORKING.&mdash; Six Lectures delivered in Willis&rsquo;s Rooms, London, in June and July, 1354. The Religion of Rome, and its influence on Modern Civilization &mdash;Four Lectures delivered in the Philo&not; sophical Institution of Edinburgh, in December 1854. In one Volume, Crown Svo. cloth. 5*. LECTURES ON THE ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY OF THE FIRST AND SECOND CENTURIES. 8vo. cloth, 10*. fid. THE UNITY OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, being a Synopsis of, and Commentary on, the first three Gospels, and the Epistles of St. James, St. Jude, St. Peter, and St. Paul. 8vo. cloth, 14*. ON THE OLD TESTAMENT. Second Edition. [In the Press. THE PROPHETS AND KINGS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT. Crown 8vo.&#39;cloth. Second Edition. 10s. 6d. THEOLOGICAL ESSAYS. Second Edition, with a new Preface and other additions. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. Od. THE DOCTRINE OF SACRIFICE deduced from the Scriptures. With a Dedicatory Letter to the Young Men&rsquo;s Christian Association. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7*. fid. ON THE EPISTLE TO THE HEBREWS. 8vo. 7s. 6d. CHRISTMAS DAY, and other Sermons. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6c?. THE RELIGIONS OF THE WORLD, and their relations to Christianity. Third Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 5s. THE PRAYER-BOOK CONSIDERED, especially in reference to the Romish System. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. fid. THE CHURCH A FAMILY. Twelve Sermons on the Occasional Services of the Prayer-Book. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. fid. ON THE LORD&rsquo;S PRAYER. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. ON THE SABBATH DAY: the Character of the Warrior; and on the Interpretation of History. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. fid. HAS THE CHURCH OR THE STATE THE POWER TO EDUCATE THE NATION? A Course of Lectures delivered in June and July, 1839. Crown 8vo. cloth, 8s. fid. AN ESSAY ON ETERNAL LIFE AND ETERNAL DEATH, and the Preface to the new Edition of &ldquo; Theological Essay.&rdquo; Crown 8vo. sewed, Is. fid. *#* Published separately for the purchasers of the first edition. THE WORD &ldquo;ETERNAL,&rdquo; AND THE PUNISHMENT OF THE tVicked. A Letter to the Rev. Dr. Jelf, Principal of King&rsquo;s College, London. Fifth Thousand. 8vo. Is. THE NAME &ldquo; PROTESTANT the Seemingly Double Character of the English Church : and the English Bishopric at Jerusalem. Three Letters to the Rev. Wm. Palmer, Fellow and Tutor of Magdalen College, Oxford. Second Edition. Svo. 3*. ON RIGHT AND WRONG METHODS OF SUPPORTING PROTES TANTISM. A Letter to Lord Ashley. 8vo. Is. THOUGHTS ON THE DUTY OF A PROTESTANT, in the Oxford Election of 1847. 8vo. Is. THE CASE OF QUEEN&#39;S COLLEGE, LONDON. A Letter to the Lord Bishop of London, in reply to the &ldquo; Quarterly Review.&rdquo; 8vo. Is. LECTURES ON MODERN HİSTORY AND ENGLISH LITERATURE. [ Preparing.